1. Ecancermedicalscience. 2025 Nov 20;19:2044. doi: 10.3332/ecancer.2025.2044. 
eCollection 2025.

Short and long term central peripherally inserted catheters in hematological 
malignancy patients: clinical outcomes and safety. Single centre experience.

Gómez Calcetero C(1)(2), Granados Diaz J(1), Aya Porto A(2)(3), Forero Romero 
A(4), López Mora M(2)(5), Omaña Orduz P(1)(2), Daza Buitrago J(1)(2), Murcia 
Linares M(1), Abello Polo V(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Functional Unit of Leukaemia, Lymphoma and Myeloma, Luis Carlos 
Sarmiento Angulo Cancer Treatment and Research Centre (CTIC), Bogotá 110141, 
Colombia.
(2)Research Group GIGA, CTIC/Universidad El Bosque, Bogotá 110141, Colombia.
(3)Research and Education Institute, Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo Cancer 
Treatment and Research Centre (CTIC), Bogotá 110141, Colombia.
(4)Clinical Functional Unit of Intensive Care, Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo 
Cancer Treatment and Research Centre (CTIC), Bogotá 110141, Colombia.
(5)Infectious Diseases Service, Luis Carlos Sarmiento Angulo Cancer Treatment 
and Research Centre (CTIC), Bogotá 110141, Colombia.

OBJECTIVE: To characterise the population and describe the complications in 
patients with hematologic malignancies who underwent implantation of a 
peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) or midline catheter (MC) for the 
administration of chemotherapy or oncologic support.
METHODS: The retrospective descriptive study included patients with hematologic 
malignancies who underwent PICC or MC implantation between July 2022 and 2024. 
All patients are part of the institution-based prospective observational 
Evidence - Verification - Analysis study. Variables related to device type were 
obtained from the vascular access and infection control group databases. 
Frequencies and percentages were used for categorical variables, and medians and 
interquartile ranges were used for numerical variables. Event rates per 1,000 
days were calculated for complications.
RESULTS: 156 patients with 249 events were included. All devices were high-flow 
and bi-lumen, the most common indication was chemotherapy administration, and 
the most common site was brachial. The median days in use for lymphoma and acute 
leukaemia were 67.5 and 24 days, respectively. The rates of catheter-associated 
thrombosis and catheter-associated bloodstream infection were 3.2% and 3.7%, 
respectively. The rates of catheter-related venous thrombosis per 1,000 catheter 
days and catheter-related bloodstream infection per 1,000 catheter days were 
0.31 and 0.83, respectively.
CONCLUSION: A multidisciplinary approach, thorough initial venous assessment, a 
strong support network, adherence to care protocols and continuous patient 
education have helped to reduce variability in care and lower complication rates 
at our institution.

© the authors; licensee ecancermedicalscience.

DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2025.2044
PMCID: PMC12950876
PMID: 41778187

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


2. Front Oncol. 2026 Feb 16;16:1714656. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2026.1714656. eCollection 
2026.

Richter transformation to classical Hodgkin lymphoma following recurrent 
disseminated histoplasmosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a Case Report.

Haj D(1), Said M(1), Al-Assil T(1), Stone S(1)(2), Omaira M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Western Michigan University Homer Stryker M.D. School of Medicine, Kalamazoo, 
MI, United States.
(2)Hematology & Medical Oncology, Bronson Cancer Center, Kalamazoo, MI, United 
States.

BACKGROUND: Richter Transformation (RT) is the rare progression of chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) into a more aggressive 
lymphoma, occurring in only about 5-10% of cases. RT has a poor prognosis with 
rapid progression and resistance to standard therapies. PET/CT scans are crucial 
in detecting RT with increased SUVmax indicating more aggressive disease.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 65-year-old male with 13q deletion CLL developed three 
relapses over the course of 13 years from initial CLL diagnosis, and work up of 
the third relapse revealed disseminated histoplasmosis. He improved with 
Ibrutinib for CLL and Amphotericin B for histoplasmosis. Four and seven years 
later, the patient re-presented with histoplasmosis reinfections, confirmed by 
PET/CT and biopsy, and treated with antifungals for each reinfection. One year 
later (21 years from initial CLL diagnosis), he presented with malignant 
hypercalcemia and retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy (LAD) for which biopsy 
revealed RT to classic Hodgkin's Lymphoma (cHL). Given his impaired renal 
function, his treatment regimen included AVD chemotherapy and nivolumab, from 
which he eventually recovered.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: CLL patients are inherently immunocompromised due to 
hypogammaglobulinemia, increasing their susceptibility to opportunistic 
infections like histoplasmosis. These infections can recur, be refractory, and 
may even coincide with RT. This unusual case of RT after chronic disseminated 
histoplasmosis reinfections involved lymph nodes and eventually hypercalcemia. 
Vigilant monitoring and patient education on risk avoidance are recommended 
strategies for mitigating risk of histoplasmosis. Providers may also consider 
Itraconazole prophylaxis. Further research is warranted to better understand the 
relationship between chronic opportunistic infections and the oncogenic 
progressions in CLL patients.

Copyright © 2026 Haj, Said, Al-Assil, Stone and Omaira.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2026.1714656
PMCID: PMC12950534
PMID: 41777646

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


3. Cancer Med. 2026 Feb;15(2):e71457. doi: 10.1002/cam4.71457.

Racial and Socioeconomic Healthcare Disparities in Access to Chimeric Antigen 
Receptor T (CAR-T) Cell Therapy for Blood Cancers.

Warnakulasuriya H(1), Tiwari R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)MSc Public Health, York St John University, London, UK.
(2)Business and Health Studies, York St John University, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Health disparities remain a critical global public health challenge, 
particularly in access to advanced treatments for blood cancers. Racial and 
socioeconomic factors influence healthcare accessibility, contributing to 
inequities in patient outcomes. Despite the potential of CAR-T therapy in 
treating blood cancers, disparities in financial resources, education, gender, 
and race hinder equitable access. This study evaluates literature on CAR-T 
therapy to identify access disparities and proposes policy recommendations.
METHODS: The PRISMA-ScR guidelines were followed for study selection and 
reporting. A comprehensive search strategy was used across databases like PubMed 
and Google Scholar, using keywords and MeSH terms. Inclusion criteria included 
peer-reviewed studies in English since 2000. A basic quality appraisal was 
conducted to ensure the relevance and credibility of included studies, despite 
the diversity of study designs and the primary focus on mapping key themes 
across the literature.
RESULTS: Twenty-five relevant (25) studies, including analytical studies, 
observational studies, and literature reviews, were analyzed. Findings indicate 
significant racial and socioeconomic disparities in CAR-T therapy accessibility, 
with financial constraints, lack of awareness, and systemic biases limiting 
equitable distribution. Challenges include high treatment costs, lack of 
insurance coverage, and underrepresentation of minority groups in trials.
CONCLUSION: Addressing these disparities requires targeted policy interventions, 
increased funding, and improved patient education. Continued research and 
collaboration are essential to ensure equitable access for all individuals.

© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.71457
PMCID: PMC12880879
PMID: 41651454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


4. Front Med (Lausanne). 2025 Dec 11;12:1657054. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1657054. 
eCollection 2025.

RUNX1-FPDMM in families with mild thrombocytopenia and platelet function 
anomalies: a case series.

Glonnegger H(1), Boeckelmann D(1), Wiedenhöfer R(1), Hassenpflug WA(2), 
Ripperger T(3), Lebrecht D(1), Knöfler R(4), Tiebel O(4), Koehler U(5), Wehr 
C(6), Sirb H(7), Sparber-Sauer M(8)(9), Reinsberger K(1), Yoshimi A(1), Strahm 
B(1), Zieger B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology, Oncology and Stem Cell Transplantation, 
Children's Hospital, Medical Center-University of Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital 
Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(4)Department of Pediatric Hemostaseology, Medical Faculty Carl Gustav Carus, 
Technical University Dresden, Children's Hospital, Dresden, Sachsen, Germany.
(5)MGZ - Medical Genetics Center, Munich, Germany.
(6)Department of Medicine I/Hematology, Oncology and Stem Cell Transplantation, 
Medical Center-University of Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(7)Medical Center (MVZ) Meerane, Rudolf Virchow Hospital Glauchau, Glauchau, 
Germany.
(8)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Children's 
Hospital Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany.
(9)Stuttgart Cancer Center, Zentrum für Kinder-, Jugend- und Frauenmedizin 
(Olgahospital), Pädiatrie 5 (Pädiatrische Onkologie, Hämatologie, Immunologie), 
Klinikum der Landeshauptstadt Stuttgart, Stuttgart, Germany.

BACKGROUND: RUNX1-familial platelet disorder with associated myeloid malignancy 
(RUNX1-FPDMM) is caused by heterozygous germline variants of RUNX1. With the 
broader application of next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based gene panel 
analysis in individuals presenting with benign hematologic abnormalities such as 
thrombocytopenia, pathogenic RUNX1 variants were more frequently identified, 
independent of a hematologic malignancy.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to describe the clinical and genetic characteristics 
of individuals with pathogenic germline RUNX1 variants, with a particular focus 
on platelet function and diagnostic challenges.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 10 individuals from 6 families with 
genetically confirmed RUNX1-FPDMM. Platelet counts and function were evaluated 
using light transmission aggregometry (LTA) and flow cytometry (FC). For genetic 
analysis, NGS-based panel sequencing for inherited platelet disorders, Sanger 
sequencing, karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and 
microarray analysis were performed.
RESULTS: Platelet counts ranged between 40 and 208 G/L. In all six tested 
individuals, LTA revealed impaired aggregation in response to collagen, 
adenosine diphosphate (ADP), and epinephrine. FC analysis identified a 
pronounced granule secretion defect in three of the eight tested individuals. 
Disease-causing RUNX1 variants included whole-gene or intragenic deletions, one 
missense, two not previously reported non-sense variants, and a mosaic RUNX1 
loss most probably due to the loss of a derivative chromosome 21. One patient 
has developed acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and another was diagnosed with 
RUNX1-FPDMM due to thrombocytopenia onset following T-lymphoblastic lymphoma.
CONCLUSION: RUNX1-FPDMM is a challenging disease due to its associated increased 
risk for hematologic malignancies, mainly myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or AML. 
Genetic diagnosis in individuals with thrombocytopenia or functional platelet 
defects of unknown origin is crucial to offer structured surveillance and 
patient education. Increased risk of bleeding due to qualitative platelet 
function defects, particularly granule secretion abnormalities, must be 
considered when managing patients, especially prior to invasive procedures.

Copyright © 2025 Glonnegger, Boeckelmann, Wiedenhöfer, Hassenpflug, Ripperger, 
Lebrecht, Knöfler, Tiebel, Koehler, Wehr, Sirb, Sparber-Sauer, Reinsberger, 
Yoshimi, Strahm and Zieger.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2025.1657054
PMCID: PMC12739554
PMID: 41458504

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The reviewer CZ declared a 
past co-authorship with the authors DB and BZ to the handling editor.


5. Explor Res Clin Soc Pharm. 2025 Oct 24;20:100678. doi: 
10.1016/j.rcsop.2025.100678. eCollection 2025 Dec.

Unmet information needs and knowledge gaps in cancer patients undergoing oral 
anticancer therapy.

Moritz AK(1), Fehrmann W(2), Schuler MK(3)(4), Stock S(5), Jaehde U(2), 
Ernstmann N(1).

Author information:
(1)Chair of Health Services Research, Institute of Medical Sociology, Health 
Services Research, and Rehabilitation Science (IMVR), Faculty of Medicine and 
University Hospital Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Institute of Pharmacy, University of Bonn, 
Bonn, Germany.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, 
Technical University at Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(4)Oncology Practice Oskar-Helene Heim, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine 
and University Hospital Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The increasing use of oral anticancer therapy (OAT) requires 
self-management skills from cancer patients. Adequate information and 
counseling, as well as medication literacy, are key elements of safe and 
successful therapy in the patient's home.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to identify unmet information needs and 
knowledge gaps of cancer patients regarding their therapy with OAT.
METHODS: Semi-structured, guideline-based interviews with cancer patients 
undergoing OAT were conducted, recorded and professionally transcribed. The 
transcripts were analysed using qualitative content analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 21 interviews were conducted. Fifteen of the interviewees 
were female, the median age was 69.6 years. Patients with solid tumours as well 
as those with blood cancers were interviewed. In the interviews, experiences 
were reported with various classes of OATs (chemotherapy; anti-hormonal therapy; 
targeted therapy). The following themes were identified: 1) Therapy-related 
information needs; 2) No information received; 3) No awareness for information 
needs; 4) No need for more information; 5) Therapy-related knowledge gaps; 6) 
Potentially inadequate knowledge. Deficits were identified in relation to 
correct use, possible interactions, and dealing with adverse events. Individual 
patients also report actively avoiding information.
CONCLUSION: The identified information needs and knowledge gaps of patients 
undergoing OAT highlight the need to optimize information and counseling in 
order to ensure treatment safety and success. In addition to providing 
knowledge, the self-management skills of patients should also be specifically 
strengthened. Furthermore, improvements to the structural framework in the 
outpatient setting are necessary, particularly with regard to the availability 
of counseling services. The results can be used as a basis for the development 
of specific interprofessional educational interventions for those affected.

© 2025 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rcsop.2025.100678
PMCID: PMC12712599
PMID: 41425733

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


6. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2025 Dec 18;27(1):55. doi: 10.1186/s12891-025-09405-1.

Orthopedic manifestations of acquired hemophilia: a case report on uncontrolled 
bleeding and progressive swelling post-phlebotomy- should fasciotomy be 
considered?

Talebian P(1), Soleimani M(1), Mottahedi M(2), Nazar E(3), Shahbazi P(4).

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, Orthopaedic Subspecialty Research Center (OSRC), Sina 
University Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Sina Hospital, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Pathology, Sina Hospital, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Orthopaedic Department, Orthopaedic Subspecialty Research Center (OSRC), Sina 
University Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
Parmida.shabazi@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Acquired hemophilia A (AHA) is a rare bleeding disorder caused by 
autoantibodies against clotting factors, often resulting in spontaneous bleeding 
or bleeding after minor trauma, potentially leading to Acute Compartment 
Syndrome (ACS). Diagnosing and managing AHA-induced ACS is challenging due to 
its rarity and the risks associated with fasciotomy in bleeding disorders. In 
low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), ACS management is further complicated 
by the lack of intra-compartmental pressure monitoring devices, necessitating 
reliance on clinical symptoms.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 36-year-old woman presented to the emergency department 
with progressive swelling of the left antecubital area after phlebotomy with no 
trauma or bleeding disorder history. After hospitalization a venous color 
Doppler ultrasound showed superficial vein thrombosis, and the patient was 
discharged and referred to the orthopedic service for follow-up of clinical 
symptoms. Returned to the hospital after approximately six hours due to the 
development of generalized weakness and hemodynamic instability. Diagnostic 
challenges arose as initial laboratory results suggested possible acute leukemia 
due to leukocytosis and thrombocytosis. Her condition deteriorated rapidly with 
wrist drop which drew increased attention and necessitating a fasciotomy due to 
suspected ACS, revealing profuse bleeding. Subsequent tests revealed low factor 
VIII levels and a high factor VIII inhibitor, confirming AHA. Treatment included 
empirically activated factor VII, prednisolone, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab, 
resulting in gradual improvement but residual wrist drop.
CONCLUSIONS: This case underscores the importance of considering AHA in patients 
with ACS-like symptoms and unexplained prolonged activated Partial 
Thromboplastin Time (aPTT), even without bleeding history. It also highlights 
the need to investigate any unexplained aPTT prolongation before surgical 
interventions. Collaboration between orthopedic surgeons and hematologists is 
essential for optimizing outcomes. Approaching to algorithms for non-traumatic 
ACS in AHA is an important step. Prompt intervention, patient education, and 
tailored treatment strategies are crucial for preventing severe complications 
and optimizing patient outcomes.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12891-025-09405-1
PMCID: PMC12831262
PMID: 41413513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Written informed consent 
was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and 
accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by 
the Editor-in-Chief of this journal on request. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


7. BMC Cancer. 2025 Dec 1;25(1):1843. doi: 10.1186/s12885-025-15301-7.

Comparing the effects of pictorial and Teach-Back education methods on 
self-efficacy and quality of life in patients with leukemia: a randomized 
controlled trial.

Falahan SN(1), Mohammadi R(1), Ayubi E(2), Yousofvand V(3).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, School of Nursing and Midwifery, Hamadan 
University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(2)Cancer Research Center, Institute of Cancer, Hamadan University of Medical 
Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, Department of Medical-Surgical Nursing, School of 
Nursing and Midwifery, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran. v.yousofvand@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Leukemia patients often experience reduced self-efficacy and 
impaired quality of life. Effective education can help improve these outcomes. 
This study aimed to compare the effects of the Teach-Back and pictorial 
education methods on self-efficacy and quality of life among patients with 
leukemia.
METHODS: This three-arm randomized controlled trial was conducted on 90 Leukemia 
patients at the Oncology Clinic of Shahid Beheshti Hospital, Hamadan, Iran, 
during 2023 and 2024. Participants were randomly assigned to one of three 
groups: Teach-Back education, pictorial education, and control. Both 
intervention groups received eight weekly sessions of 45 to 60 min, providing 
similar educational content regarding disease nature, symptom management, and 
coping skills. Data were collected using the Sherer General Self-Efficacy Scale 
and the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of 
Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) at baseline, one month, and two months 
post-intervention.
RESULTS: Post-intervention, both educational methods significantly enhanced 
self-efficacy, overall quality of life, and multiple subdomains compared to the 
control group (P < 0.001). Nevertheless, the Teach-Back method appeared to be 
more effective than pictorial education and routine care across most domains and 
symptoms, including fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting, dyspnea, sleep disturbances, 
constipation, diarrhea, and appetite loss. Between-group effect sizes were 
moderate and statistically significant for self-efficacy (η² = 0.494) and 
quality of life (η² = 0.522). These improvements were sustained at the two-month 
follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Based on the findings of this study, it is recommended that the 
Teach-Back method be implemented by healthcare providers, particularly nurses, 
within care programs for patients with leukemia.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: IRCT20211227053551N3; Registration Date: 2022-11-26.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-025-15301-7
PMCID: PMC12667168
PMID: 41327104

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Hamadan 
University of Medical Sciences (Ethics Code: IR.UMSHA.REC.1401.656; Clinical 
Trial Registration Number: IRCT20211227053551N3; Registration Date: 2022-11-26). 
Prior to data collection, participants were provided with a clear explanation of 
the study’s objectives and procedures, and written informed consent was obtained 
in accordance with institutional and national ethical guidelines, as well as the 
Declaration of Helsinki. No names or personally identifiable information (e.g., 
contact details or ID numbers) were collected. To ensure anonymity and 
confidentiality, each participant was assigned a unique identification code, and 
all electronic data were stored on a password-protected computer accessible only 
to the research team. Hard copy materials were secured in a locked cabinet. 
Participants were informed that they could withdraw from the study at any stage 
without any consequences, and that all collected information would remain 
confidential and used solely for research purposes. Written informed consent was 
obtained from all individual participants included in the study. Consent for 
publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


8. Hu Li Za Zhi. 2025 Dec;72(6):25-30. doi: 10.6224/JN.202512_72(6).05.

[Basic Principle and Pharmacological Mechanism of the Chimeric Antigen Receptor 
(CAR)-T Cell].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wang YW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, National Taiwan University Hospital; School of 
Pharmacy, National Taiwan University, Taiwan, ROC. enjoymyway@ntuh.gov.tw.

Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy is an advanced immunotherapy 
designed for the effective treatment of patients with refractory or relapsed 
hematologic malignancies. In recent years, CAR-T therapy has demonstrated 
remarkable therapeutic efficacy in applications on diseases such as acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. The treatment approach 
involves collecting a patient's own T cells and genetically engineering them to 
express a CAR structure, enabling specific recognition of tumor-associated 
antigens. Reinfused into the patient, these modified T cells undergo robust 
expansion, secrete cytokines, and directly induce apoptosis in tumor cells. 
CAR-T cells typically comprise three domains, namely antigen-recognition, 
signaling, and co-stimulatory, each of which influences the activity and 
toxicity profile of these cells. The CAR-T cell therapy process includes patient 
evaluation, leukapheresis, gene transduction and cell expansion, lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy, and CAR-T infusion, all of which require multidisciplinary 
collaboration. The common adverse effects of CAR-T therapy, including cytokine 
release syndrome and neurotoxicity, must be closely monitored for and graded by 
nursing staff for early intervention. In addition, delayed toxicities such as 
pancytopenia or hypogammaglobulinemia may occur, necessitating long-term 
follow-up and supportive care. Nurses play a pivotal role throughout the CAR-T 
treatment process in terms of providing clinical monitoring, patient education, 
and psychological support; ensuring treatment safety; and optimizing overall 
patient care quality.

Publisher: TITLE: CAR-T細胞治療的基本原理及藥理機制.
嵌合抗原受體T細胞（chimeric antigen receptor T-cell, 
CAR-T）治療是一項針對難治與復發型血液惡性腫瘤的尖端免疫療法，近年在急性淋巴性白血病（acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia）與瀰漫性大B細胞淋巴瘤（diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma）等疾病中展現突破性療效。治療原理為採集病人自身T細胞，透過基因工程賦予其表現CAR結構，使其具備辨識腫瘤抗原的能力。這些改造後的T細胞在回輸體內後能大量擴增、釋放細胞激素並直接誘發腫瘤細胞凋亡。CAR-T細胞的結構包含抗原辨識區、訊號傳導區與共刺激域，不同設計會影響細胞活性與毒性反應。治療流程包括病人評估、白血球分離術、基因轉殖與細胞培養、淋巴球清除性化療及CAR-T輸注，全程需跨科別團隊密切合作。常見副作用如細胞激素釋放症候群與神經毒性，需由護理人員進行監測與評估嚴重度以早期介入。此外，CAR-T治療後延遲性不良反應包含血液學毒性、免疫球蛋白低下，需長期追蹤與支持性照護。護理師在治療流程中扮演關鍵角色，需兼顧臨床監護、病人衛教與心理支持，確保療效安全並提升病人整體照護品質。.

DOI: 10.6224/JN.202512_72(6).05
PMID: 41277117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Support Care Cancer. 2025 Nov 22;33(12):1116. doi: 10.1007/s00520-025-10154-z.

Bridging the gap: the need for community-engaged research on blood cancer 
self-management experiences among South Asians.

Dhillon S(1), Sirois AC(2), Sanghera D(2), Kaur A(3), Sasheendren A(2), Mian 
H(4), Newton L(2), Ahmed S(5)(6), Cosco TD(7)(8), Lad D(9)(10), Bradley C(11), 
Puts M(12)(13), Haase KR(2)(14).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada. Sandeep.Dhillon@ubc.ca.
(2)School of Nursing, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(3)Vancouver Community College, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Oncology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, 
Canada.
(6)Saskatchewan Cancer Agency, Saskatoon Cancer Center, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, 
Canada.
(7)School of Public Policy, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(8)Oxford Institute of Population Ageing, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(9)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Leukemia/BMT Program of BC, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(10)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(11)Archer Library, University of Regina, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.
(12)Lawrence Bloomberg Faculty of Nursing, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(13)Department of Supportive Care, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(14)BC Cancer, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-025-10154-z
PMCID: PMC12640321
PMID: 41273411

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


10. Health Sci Rep. 2025 Oct 21;8(10):e71404. doi: 10.1002/hsr2.71404. eCollection 
2025 Oct.

The Effect of Foot Reflexology on Sleep Quality in Patients With Chronic 
Lymphocytic Leukemia Under Chemotherapy: A Randomized Controlled Trial.

Parizad N(1)(2), Hassanpour A(2)(3), Goli R(2)(4), Khalkhali H(5)(6), Nozad 
A(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Patient Safety Research Center, Clinical Research Institute, Urmia University 
of Medical Sciences Urmia Iran.
(2)Nursing and Midwifery Faculty, Campus Nazlu Urmia West Azerbaijan Iran.
(3)Department of nursing School of Nursing and Midwifery, Urmia University of 
Medical Sciences Urmia Iran.
(4)Department of Medical-Surgical Nursing School of Nursing and Midwifery, Urmia 
University of Medical Sciences Urmia Iran.
(5)Biostatistics and Epidemiology Department School of Medicine, Urmia 
University of Medical Sciences Urmia Iran.
(6)Medicine Faculty, Campus Nazlu Urmia West Azerbaijan Iran.
(7)Urmia University of Medical Sciences Urmia Iran.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) frequently causes a 
range of physical and psychological symptoms, including disrupted sleep. Foot 
reflexology is thought to promote relaxation and improve sleep quality. This 
study evaluated its effectiveness in patients with CLL undergoing chemotherapy.
METHODS: A single-blind randomized controlled trial was conducted with 68 
participants (n = 68), who were assigned either to an intervention group or a 
control group. The intervention group received daily 10-min foot reflexology 
sessions for 4 weeks using sweet almond oil, while the control group received 
standard routine care, including monitoring of vital signs, symptom management, 
medication administration, psychological support, and general patient education 
according to oncology ward protocols. Sleep quality was assessed at baseline and 
after the intervention using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Data 
were analyzed with SPSS version 25, using chi-square tests, Fisher's exact test, 
and t-tests.
RESULTS: At baseline, there was no significant difference in PSQI scores between 
groups (Reflexology: 16.30 ± 1.29 vs. Control: 16.78 ± 1.38; p = 0.143). After 
the intervention, the reflexology group showed a marked improvement in sleep 
quality compared to the control group (11.78 ± 1.47 vs. 16.21 ± 1.40; 
p < 0.001). The effect size was very large and clinically meaningful (Cohen's 
d = 3.08, 95% CI: 2.55-3.61). Within-group analysis confirmed significant 
improvement in the reflexology group (t = 6.161, p < 0.001; Cohen's d = 3.50), 
whereas no significant change was observed in the control group (t = -1.559, 
p = 0.136).
CONCLUSIONS: Foot reflexology appears to be a safe and effective complementary 
intervention to improve sleep quality in patients with CLL. However, the study's 
limitations, including the lack of a sham control, short-term follow-up, and a 
relatively small sample size, should be considered. Healthcare providers may 
cautiously incorporate reflexology into supportive care, ensuring integration 
with standard treatments and professional guidance.

© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hsr2.71404
PMCID: PMC12540198
PMID: 41132190

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


11. Front Hematol. 2025;4:1550681. doi: 10.3389/frhem.2025.1550681. Epub 2025 Mar 
21.

Exercise and Diet Studies Among Patients Living with Multiple Myeloma: Current 
Evidence and Considerations of Patient Preferences.

Maslana KE(1), Skogerboe GE(2), Sborov DW(3)(4), Coletta AM(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Kinesiology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, 
USA.
(2)Department of Clinical Investigation School of Medicine, University of Utah, 
Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(4)Huntsman Cancer Institute at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(5)Cancer Control and Population Sciences Program., The Huntsman Cancer 
Institute at the University of Utah.

BACKGROUND: Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common blood cancer after 
leukemia in adults. Despite advancements in treatment that have extended 
survival, MM remains incurable and the cancer and its treatment result in 
adverse acute, long-term and latent side-effects, necessitating a focus on 
strategies to attenuate these side-effects and improve quality of life. This 
narrative review highlights MM patient preferences for exercise and/or diet 
interventions relative to complete and ongoing interventions to identify gaps 
and needs for future lifestyle interventions in MM patients aimed at improving 
MM survivorship care.
METHODS: This updated review was completed using a comprehensive search that was 
conducted using PubMed and ClinicalTrials.gov databases using keywords related 
to MM, exercise, physical activity, diet, nutrition and patient preferences. 
Studies involving adults diagnosed with MM were included.
RESULTS: Among published studies, there are five exercise interventions and four 
diet and nutrition observational studies. The importance of individualized 
exercise interventions tailored to MM patients' needs was emphasized. Supervised 
exercise interventions showed higher adherence and engagement compared to 
unsupervised interventions. Observational diet/nutrition studies demonstrated 
that decreased gut microbiome diversity post-transplant is linked to poorer 
outcomes. Additionally, nutritional status and dietary patterns, such as 
high-carbohydrate and plant-based diets, can significantly impact clinical 
outcomes in MM patients, including sustained minimal residual disease 
negativity. Current clinical trials are primarily focused on feasibility and 
adherence, with a limited emphasis on long-term outcomes. In ClinicalTrials.gov, 
there are six ongoing exercise interventions, with an additional seven that are 
completed with no published results, one suspended trial and one active but not 
recruiting. Additionally, there are two combined diet and exercise interventions 
that are currently recruiting, with one active but no longer recruiting. Among 
diet and nutrition ongoing trials, there are currently two actively recruiting, 
two completed with no primary paper published and one study that was withdrawn.
DISCUSSION: These findings underscore the need for more comprehensive, long-term 
and adequately powered studies on the impact of exercise and diet interventions 
in MM patients. Patient education and empowerment within these trials are 
crucial for enhancing engagement and adherence to these interventions.

DOI: 10.3389/frhem.2025.1550681
PMCID: PMC12442496
PMID: 40970124


12. J Am Podiatr Med Assoc. 2025 Jul 30:1-21. doi: 10.7547/25-108. Online ahead of 
print.

A Novel Diabetic Limb Preservation Initiative.

Han P(1).

Author information:
(1)*Clinical Professor, Podiatric Surgery, Department of Diabetes, Endocrinology 
and Metabolism Department of Oncologic Surgery, City of Hope National 
Comprehensive Cancer Center Duarte, CA. Diplomate, American Board of Foot and 
Ankle Surgery; Diplomate, American Board of Podiatric Medicine.

BACKGROUND: Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) and lower extremity amputations are 
major contributors to morbidity and mortality in individuals with diabetes. 
Among patients undergoing active cancer treatment, the risks are compounded by 
immunosuppression, peripheral neuropathy, and vascular complications. Even minor 
foot infections or wounds in these patients can necessitate the suspension of 
cancer therapy, with potentially life-threatening consequences. This study 
evaluated the impact of integrating symptom-focused patient education with 
coordinated podiatric care to reduce DFUs and amputations in this high-risk 
population with concurrent cancer and diabetes.
METHODS: A five-year retrospective review was conducted at a National Cancer 
Institute (NCI)-designated comprehensive cancer center as part of the Novel Limb 
Preservation Initiative. The cohort included patients with Type II diabetes 
undergoing treatment for prostate, breast, colorectal, lymphoma, leukemia, 
thyroid, or lung cancers. Patients were assigned targeted educational modules 
based on self-reported diabetic foot symptoms. Podiatric care was individualized 
according to each patient's signs and symptoms, including routine diabetic foot 
examinations and close, timely monitoring when indicated.
RESULTS: The intervention yielded a DFU incidence of 2.8% and an amputation rate 
of 0.43%, both lower than national benchmarks. Enhanced patient engagement 
through diabetic foot symptom-focused education and earlier detection of foot 
complications-including diabetic foot issues that may appear minor to 
laypersons-contributed to these improved outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Integrating diabetic foot symptom-focused education with proactive 
podiatric monitoring significantly reduced DFUs and amputations in this 
high-risk population. This model, developed under the Novel Limb Preservation 
Initiative, offers a scalable strategy for broader implementation, particularly 
in high-risk communities, including Hispanic, African American, low 
socioeconomic, and rural populations across the United States.

DOI: 10.7547/25-108
PMID: 40839533


13. Acta Haematol. 2025 Jul 18:1-16. doi: 10.1159/000547426. Online ahead of print.

Practical Management of Cardiovascular Adverse Events with BTKi Treatment in 
Patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: A Consensus Report by Hematologists 
and Cardiologists.

Munir T(1), Čiburienė E(2), Graklanov V(3), Gospodinova M(4), Jakšić O(5), Lipar 
L(6), Marton I(7), Panovská A(8), Petríková L(9), Pileckyte R(10), Pozsonyi 
Z(11), Slanina M(12), Škerget M(13), Bulj N(14).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.
(2)Cardiology and Angiology Center, Vilnius University Hospital, Vilnius, 
Lithuania.
(3)Division of Hematology, Medical University of Plovdiv, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.
(4)Cardiac Amyloidosis Reference Center and Expert Center for Hereditary 
Transthyretin Amyloidosis, University Hospital St Ivan Rilski, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(5)Department of Hematology, University Hospital Dubrava, Zagreb, Croatia.
(6)Department of Cardiology, UMC Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(7)Department of Medicine, Albert Szent-Györgyi Medical School, University of 
Szeged and Department of Transfusion Medicine, Albert Szent-Györgyi Medical 
School, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital 
and Masaryk University, Brno, Czechia.
(9)Department of Oncohematology, Comenius University and National Cancer 
Institute, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(10)Department of Hematology, Vilnius University Hospital, Vilnius, Lithuania.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine and Haematology, Semmelweis University, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(12)Cardiology Center, University Hospital J.A. Reiman, Prešov, Slovakia.
(13)Department of Haematology, UMC Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(14)University Hospital Centre Sisters of Mercy, Zagreb, Croatia.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular (CV) adverse events (AEs), especially atrial 
fibrillation (AF) and hypertension, have been reported in patients receiving 
treatments for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), including Bruton's tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors (BTKis). Although these AEs are managed effectively in most 
cases and AE management guidelines exist, practical management approaches are 
inconsistent across regions and practices. We aimed to address these 
inconsistencies by developing consensus recommendations.
SUMMARY: A European expert panel was assembled comprising eight hematologists 
and six cardiologists. Literature analysis, expert interviews, and the Delphi 
method were used to gain consensus on screening, monitoring, and treatment of AF 
and hypertension statements.
KEY MESSAGES: Maintaining BTKi treatment is paramount to maximize time to next 
treatment; for patients at high risk of progression, this can be achieved by 
appropriately treating hypertension and AF and adjusting the BTKi dose. Patients 
should be risk-stratified as low, moderate, high, or very-high risk of cancer 
therapy-related CV toxicity and treated according to their disease status so 
that CLL treatment can be maintained. Patient education on symptom monitoring, 
home blood pressure monitoring, and electrocardiograms (baseline, every 3 
months) are recommended to detect/monitor AF and hypertension. Close 
collaboration between hematologists and cardiologists is vital to achieve 
optimal patient outcomes.

© 2025 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000547426
PMCID: PMC12503664
PMID: 40684756

Conflict of interest statement: T.M. is an advisor and/or receives honoraria 
from Janssen, AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Morphosys, Alexion, Apellis, Gilead, 
Novartis, Sobi, Eli Lilly, and BeiGene. O.J. is a speaker for and/or in the 
advisory board of Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, AbbVie, and Roche. 
L.L. receives speaker honoraria from Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Servier, 
AOP Pharma, Chiesi, Berlin-Chemie AG, Pfizer, and Swixx Biopharma. R.P. provides 
conference support for AbbVie. MSk is an advisor and/or receives honoraria from 
AbbVie, Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, BeiGene, and Roche. E.C., V.G., M.G., 
I.M., A.P., L.P., Z.P., M.S.l., and N.B. have nothing to disclose.


14. J Cancer Educ. 2025 Jun 26. doi: 10.1007/s13187-025-02673-4. Online ahead of 
print.

Evaluation of Online Patient Education Materials for Acute Myeloid Leukemia.

Weiss JM(1), Mahayni Y(2), Steinberg AS(3).

Author information:
(1)New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY, USA. Jweiss11@student.nymc.edu.
(2)New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY, USA.
(3)Westchester Medical Center, Valhalla, NY, USA.

In the modern healthcare landscape, many patients turn to online platforms for 
information about their diagnoses and treatment options. This study assessed 14 
acute myeloid leukemia (AML) websites for their understandability and 
actionability using the Patient Education Materials Assessment Tool (PEMAT). 
Fourteen patient-facing US AML websites were searched in Google, selected, and 
analyzed using the PEMAT criteria. PEMAT is an online resource used to evaluate 
print materials, with two sections: understandability and actionability. 
Websites were rated by two independent reviewers, and discrepancies were 
discussed. Websites were categorized by government, public/private companies, 
patient advocacy groups, professional societies, and cancer centers. The study 
analyzed 14 websites on AML education material. The mean "understandability" 
score was 86% (range 77%-100%); government scored the highest, and 
private/public companies scored the lowest. The mean "actionability" score was 
63% (range 33%-100%); patient advocacy groups scored the highest, and cancer 
centers scored the lowest. Most of the AML websites analyzed were easy to 
understand but lacked material that prompted patients to take action regarding 
their care. These actions included writing down common questions to ask their 
physician and inquiring about resources (e.g., support groups, relevant clinical 
trials, and financial support). This study highlights an opportunity to enhance 
online patient education material by improving understandability through content 
summaries and visual aids and improving actionability by adding tools (e.g., 
planners, checklists) to help patients take control of their disease management, 
including comprehending treatment options, understanding disease etiology, and 
managing financial assistance.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s13187-025-02673-4
PMID: 40571896


15. Support Care Cancer. 2025 Jun 10;33(7):561. doi: 10.1007/s00520-025-09636-x.

Factors associated with physical and psychological health in non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma patients: a prospective longitudinal study.

Hung CW(1), Kuo MC(2)(3), Chen SC(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Chang Gung Medical Foundation, Linkou Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung 
Medical Foundation, Linkou Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan.
(4)School of Nursing and Geriatric and Long-Term Care Research Center, College 
of Nursing, Chang Gung University of Science and Technology, 261, Wen-Hua 1 
Road, Guishan, Taoyuan, 333, Taiwan. shuching@gw.cgust.edu.tw.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology and Proton and Radiation Therapy Center, 
Chang Gung Medical Foundation, Linkou Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan. shuching@gw.cgust.edu.tw.
(6)School of Nursing, College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan. shuching@gw.cgust.edu.tw.

PURPOSE: Non-Hodgkins's lymphoma (NHL) patients' body mass index (BMI), 
information needs, and self-efficacy to manage illness vary over the course of 
treatment and are correlated to their physical and psychological health. The 
purpose of this study was to assess BMI, performance status, information needs, 
and self-efficacy to manage illness, and study their effects on symptom distress 
and anxiety in patients with NHL.
METHODS: This prospective longitudinal study recruited NHL patients from a 
medical center in Northern Taiwan. A total of 47 NHL patients were followed 
before treatment (T0), at 6 weeks after beginning treatment (T1), and at 
15 weeks after beginning treatment (T2). Generalized estimating equation 
analysis was used to examine the factors associated with symptom distress and 
anxiety.
RESULTS: Self-efficacy to manage illness increased from T0 to T2 and was lowest 
at T0. Symptom distress slightly increased from T0 to T1 and then decreased at 
T2. Anxiety and information needs decreased from T0 to T2 and were highest at 
T0. Less symptom distress was associated with less anxiety, higher information 
needs, and higher self-efficacy to manage illness. Greater anxiety was 
associated with greater symptom distress, higher information needs, and less 
self-efficacy to manage illness.
CONCLUSION: Information needs and self-efficacy to manage illness were important 
factors influencing symptom distress and anxiety in patients with NHL. 
Healthcare professionals should provide patient-centered education as part of 
pre-treatment care to facilitate self-care, empower self-efficacy to manage 
illness, and improve symptom distress and anxiety.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-025-09636-x
PMID: 40490567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate (human): Ethics approval and consent to participate. The study was 
reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board of Chang Gung Medical 
Foundation in Taiwan (Number: 202200589B0), and all methods were performed in 
accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Written informed consent was 
obtained from all participants before data collection. The authors also thank 
the copyright owners for their permission to use the questionnaires. Consent for 
publication: This manuscript is original, is not plagiarized, and has not been 
published elsewhere. This manuscript is not under consideration for publication 
in another journal, and will not be submitted elsewhere until the Supportive 
Care in Cancer editorial process is completed. All authors consent to the 
publication of the manuscript in Supportive Care in Cancer, should the article 
be accepted by the Editor-in-chief upon completion. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.


16. Support Care Cancer. 2025 May 24;33(6):498. doi: 10.1007/s00520-025-09537-z.

A smart pill bottle and text messaging intervention for promoting medication 
adherence in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia: a pilot study of txt4 TKI.

Wen KY(1), Palmisiano N(2), Smith R(3), Slamon R(3), Keiffer G(3), Fidler C(4), 
Kasner M(3), Wilde L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, 
PA, 19107, USA. Kuang-Yi.Wen@jefferson.edu.
(2)Rutgers Cancer Institute, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, 
PA, 19107, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Jefferson Abington Hospital, Willow Grove, 
PA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients undergoing tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy for 
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) often face challenges with adherence, despite the 
efficacy of the treatment. Theory-guided and evidence-informed interventions 
addressing psychosocial and adherence barriers are critical for promoting 
adherence. Using a mixed-method approach, the pilot study developed and 
evaluated the feasibility and potential impact of an intervention "txt4TKI," to 
support medication and symptom management among CML patients undergoing TKI 
therapy.
METHODS: Guided by the Necessity and Concerns framework, the study comprised two 
phases: Phase 1 involved qualitative patient needs assessment interviews 
informing intervention design. Phase 2 was a single-arm pilot study conducted 
for 6 months. The objectives of Phase 2 were to assess the feasibility and 
acceptability of the txt4 TKI intervention, examining enrollment and retention 
rates, intervention utilization, patient satisfaction, and changes in TKI 
medication adherence, psychosocial and symptom factors, from baseline to the 
6-month follow-up. The intervention integrates a smart pill bottle activated 
with light, chimes to remind medication taking and three proactive text messages 
per week addressing clinical importance of TKI, symptom, lifestyle, and distress 
management as well as a biweekly toxicity assessment with tailored management 
feedback. Adherence was also objectively measured by the smart pill bottle and 
psychosocial survey was repeatedly assessed at 3- and 6-month.
RESULTS: The intervention, developed iteratively and theoretically through 
patient-centered inputs (n = 10) and evidence-based information during Phase 1, 
integrates knowledge on CML, TKI therapy, self-care symptom management, 
emotional support, and healthy lifestyle recommendations. In Phase 2, 20 out of 
30 eligible patients (67% consent rate), with a mean age of 55.3, 60% females 
and 65% Non-White participants, were enrolled. Fifty-five percent have been 
taking their medication for 1-3 years and 50% were taking Dasatinib. A high 
satisfaction and engagement rate of 90% with an 85% retention rate were 
observed. While medication self-efficacy significantly improved from baseline to 
6 months, the adherence rate to TKI was slightly decreased over time. 
Post-intervention interviews indicated that participants found the intervention 
user-friendly, providing valuable information and emotional support, but 
adjusting the timing and content of interventions to tailor to different stages 
of therapy might better support sustained adherence.
CONCLUSIONS: The txt4 TKI intervention using interactive text messaging and a 
smart pill bottle, feasible, and acceptable, demonstrated an increase in 
medication self-efficacy, an important aspect of medication adherence behaviors. 
Further research is needed to explore factors that influence the promotion and 
maintenance of adherence behaviors.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-025-09537-z
PMCID: PMC12103477
PMID: 40411655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: All subjects 
gave their informed consent for inclusion before they participated in the study. 
The study was conducted in accordance with 45 CFR 46. 109 (f)(1), and the 
protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of Thomas Jefferson University IRB 
and Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


17. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2025 Jun;76:102896. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2025.102896. Epub 2025 
Apr 17.

Understanding post-treatment self-management learning needs of young adults 
diagnosed with hematological cancer: a qualitative study.

Hartono B(1), Bilodeau K(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, Université de Montréal, Montréal, H3T 1A8, Québec, 
Canada. Electronic address: benedicta.hartono@umontreal.ca.
(2)Faculty of Nursing, Université de Montréal, Montréal, H3T 1A8, Québec, 
Canada; Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital Research Centre, Montréal, H1T 2M4, 
Québec, Canada. Electronic address: karine.bilodeau.2@umontreal.ca.

PURPOSE: To better support and promote an active role in survivorship, the 
purpose of this study was to identify and understand the perspective of young 
adults diagnosed with a hematological cancer in regard to their post-treatment 
self-management learning needs.
METHOD: An interpretative-descriptive study was conducted. Semi-structured 
individual interviews were carried out with eight young adults (ages 18 to 29 at 
the end of active treatment), diagnosed with a leukemia or lymphoma, who have 
not received active treatment for at least one year. Iterative content analysis 
of interview data was performed.
RESULTS: According to participants, it is when young adults experience 
transitions or feel alone in dealing with post-treatment challenges that they 
can identify a learning need. Protective factors and precipitating factors 
related to young adults, their entourage and their care providers (e.g., young 
adult characteristics, level of support, quality of patient education) can 
contribute to shape their view of self-management learning needs. For young 
adults, an underlying motivation guides the identification of attitudes 
(autonomy, responsibility, acceptance), knowledge (physical and psychosocial 
challenges, rights to accommodation for disability) or skills (self-assessment, 
action-planning, self-advocacy) to be gained.
CONCLUSIONS: This study supports that young adults need more than information to 
feel confident in their ability to self-manage post-treatment challenges. 
Learning to self-manage is therefore a process of personal transformation, 
fueled by internal motivation, that also benefits from external support through 
collaboration between young adults, their entourage, and their care providers 
including oncology nurses.

Crown Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2025.102896
PMID: 40287998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


18. J Rural Health. 2025 Mar;41(2):e70028. doi: 10.1111/jrh.70028.

Living with chronic myelogenous leukemia in rural communities: Exploring factors 
related to tyrosine kinase inhibitors adherence with a mixed methods approach.

Sheng J(1), Heiney SP(2), Wickersham KE(2), Nguyen LA(2), Harrison KW(2), Adams 
SA(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Biobehavioral and Nursing Science Department, College of Nursing, University 
of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Arnold School of Public Health, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, USA.

PURPOSE: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) improve chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML) outcomes dramatically. However, limited research exists on 
patient-specific, medical, and psychosocial factors influencing TKI adherence. 
The purpose of the study was to better understand TKI adherence among rural CML 
patients, using a convergent parallel mixed-method design guided by the 
Information Motivation and Behavioral Skills Model.
METHODS: Survivors with CML participated in semistructured interviews and 
completed self-reported questionnaires, including demographics, perceived 
stress, side effects, emotional support, and self-efficacy for managing chronic 
conditions. Qualitative and quantitative data were collected concurrently, 
analyzed separately, and then integrated.
RESULTS: Sixteen participants aged 26 to 76 years completed the study. The 
duration of TKI therapy ranged from 0 to 12 years (mean ± standard deviation, 
5.56 ± 4.08). While all reported adherence to TKI therapy, 31% held 
misconceptions about treatment duration, and 38% misunderstood reasons for blood 
tests prior to treatment or TKI refilled. Qualitative data yielded five major 
themes with descriptions of the shock of diagnosis, educational experiences 
regarding CML and its treatment, challenges in managing side effects and 
refills, the importance of social support, and strategies for maintaining 
remission and motivating adherence to TKI.
CONCLUSIONS: This study describes the knowledge, motivations, challenges, and 
skills related to TKI adherence among rural patients with CML. A 
patient-centered approach is recommended for health care providers to improve 
adherence and enhance outcomes for CML patients on TKI therapy.

© 2025 The Author(s). The Journal of Rural Health published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC on behalf of National Rural Health Association.

DOI: 10.1111/jrh.70028
PMCID: PMC12032516
PMID: 40285411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


19. Vaccines (Basel). 2025 Mar 7;13(3):284. doi: 10.3390/vaccines13030284.

Awareness and Knowledge About Preventive Vaccinations Among Patients with 
Hematological Malignancies.

Morawska M(1), Masternak M(1), Grząśko N(1), Lech-Marańda E(2), Wróbel T(3), 
Giebel S(4), Tomasiewicz K(5), Giannopoulos K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Hematooncology, Medical University of Lublin, 
20-093 Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Hematology, Institute of Hematology and Transfusion Medicine, 
02-776 Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Clinical Department of Hematology, Cell Therapies and Internal Diseases, 
Wroclaw Medical University, 50-367 Wroclaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Bone Marrow Transplantation and OncoHematology, Maria 
Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute of Oncology, Gliwice Branch, 44-102 
Gliwice, Poland.
(5)Department and Clinic of Infectious Diseases and Hepatology, USK-1, Medical 
University of Lublin, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Patients with hematological malignancies, including multiple myeloma 
(MM) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), are at an increased risk of severe 
infections due to both disease- and therapy-related immunosuppression. This 
cross-sectional study evaluated awareness of infection risks and vaccination 
uptake among 150 adults with various hematological malignancies from major 
Polish centers.
METHODS: All participants completed a 30-item questionnaire capturing 
demographic data, treatment history, infection frequency, and vaccination 
attitude. Statistical analyses utilized Chi-square and Fisher's exact tests, 
with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: Respondents had a median age of 57 years (range, 30-79), and 65.3% were 
female. MM was the most common diagnosis (64.7%), followed by CLL (4.0%) and 
other hematological malignancies (31.3%). Nearly all participants (99.3%) 
acknowledged their increased susceptibility to infections. Frequent infections 
(≥2 in the past 6 months) were significantly associated with transfusion 
dependency (p = 0.0001) and a history of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
(HSCT, p = 0.009). Although 69.3% expressed willingness to be vaccinated, 23.3% 
declined COVID-19 vaccination due to insufficient cancer-specific safety data. 
Higher education and urban residence correlated with greater acceptance of 
vaccines (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings underscore the critical need for targeted educational 
strategies and robust vaccination guidelines in this immunocompromised 
population. Enhanced patient education and timely implementation of tailored 
vaccination regimens could reduce infection-related morbidity and improve the 
tolerability of cancer treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines13030284
PMCID: PMC11945929
PMID: 40266134

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


20. Cancer Nurs. 2024 Sep 27. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000001408. Online ahead of 
print.

Pilot Testing of Build StaMINA: A Tailored Physical Activity Program for Adults 
Receiving Treatment for Acute Myeloid Leukemia.

Albrecht TA(1), Pastva AM, Yang Q, Lee Y, LeBlanc TW, Richardson DR, Leak Bryant 
A.

Author information:
(1)Author Affiliations: School of Nursing (Drs Albrecht and Yang and Ms Lee) and 
Medicine (Drs Pastva and LeBlanc), Duke University, Durham, North Carolina; and 
Schools of Medicine (Dr Richardson) and Nursing (Dr Leak Bryant), University of 
North Carolina-Chapel Hill.

BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive and often debilitating 
cancer for adults across the treatment trajectory. Patients experience frequent 
hospitalization, sedentariness, and negative sequelae including physical 
dysfunction and symptoms, which increase their risk for adverse events and 
mortality.
OBJECTIVE: To test the preliminary efficacy of a tailored physical activity (PA) 
program.
METHODS: This is a 2-group randomized controlled trial to explore the 
preliminary effects of a home-based tailored PA program versus attention 
control. The intervention includes PA across all physical domains important for 
independence. Assessments included physical function (6-Minute Walk Distance, 
primary), cognition (Montreal Cognitive Assessment), and patient-reported 
symptoms (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) at baseline 
and 6 and 12 weeks.
RESULTS: Forty-six adults with AML were randomized into intervention (n = 22) 
and control (n = 24). Participants had a mean age of 58 years. No adverse events 
were reported. We observed a 22% attrition and 83% adherence to the 
intervention. Clinically significant increases in 6-Minute Walk Distance (mean, 
49.78 ± 98.9 vs 3.7 ± 155.1 m) and mean scores for cognition (3.2 [9.9] vs -0.7 
[9.7]), depression (-5.1 [12.9] vs -1.8 [7.7]), and self-efficacy (3.7 [8.0] vs 
1.4 [7.2]) from baseline to 12 weeks were found in the intervention group versus 
control group.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support safety, feasibility, and further testing of 
this intervention in a larger trial powered to evaluate efficacy of this 
tailored PA intervention to support adult AML survivors during treatment.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: This tailored intervention has the potential to 
support patients with AML and manage common sequelae across the treatment 
trajectory.

Copyright © 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000001408
PMID: 40203204

Conflict of interest statement: T.W.L. has received honoraria for 
consulting/advisory boards from AbbVie, Agilix, Agios/Servier, Apellis, 
Astellas, AstraZeneca, Beigene, BlueNote, BMS/Celgene, Genentech, GSK, Lilly, 
Meter Health, Novartis, and Pfizer; speaking-related honoraria from AbbVie, 
Agios, Astellas, BMS/Celgene, Incyte, and Rigel; equity interest in Dosentrx 
(stock options in a privately held company); royalties from UpToDate; research 
funding from the AbbVie, American Cancer Society, AstraZeneca, BMS, Deverra 
Therapeutics, Duke University, GSK, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, the Leukemia and 
Lymphoma Society, the National Institute of Nursing Research/National Institutes 
of Health, and Seattle Genetics. The other authors have no conflicts of interest 
to disclose.


21. Br J Dermatol. 2025 May 19;192(6):1029-1037. doi: 10.1093/bjd/ljaf027.

Skin cancer risk in more than 200 000 patients with haematological malignancies 
over 30 years: a nationwide population-based study in the Netherlands.

Eggermont CJ(1), Hollatz A(1), Wakkee M(1), Louwman M(2), Dinmohamed AG(3)(4), 
Posthuma EFM(2)(5)(6), Nijsten T(1), Hollestein L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Research and Development, Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer 
Organization (IKNL), Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Hematology, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Cancer Center 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Reinier de Graaf Hospital, Delft, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2025 May 19;192(6):966-967. doi: 10.1093/bjd/ljaf081.

BACKGROUND: Patients with haematological malignancies are at increased risk of 
developing skin cancer and often experience worse skin cancer-related outcomes. 
However, there is a lack of nationwide, population-based data with long-term 
follow-up on the incidence and risks of different skin cancer types across all 
haematological malignancies.
OBJECTIVES: To assess population-based risk estimates for cutaneous squamous 
cell carcinoma (cSCC), malignant melanoma (MM), Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) and 
basal cell carcinoma (BCC) among patients with haematological malignancies, 
stratified by skin cancer type and haematological malignancy subgroup. These 
estimates can serve as a base for surveillance guidelines and patient education.
METHODS: This nationwide population-based epidemiological cohort study used data 
from 210 794 patients diagnosed with a haematological malignancy between 1989 
and 2020 from the Netherlands Cancer Registry (NCR). In addition, data on each 
type of histopathologically confirmed skin cancer per patient after 
haematological malignancy diagnosis were retrieved from the NCR. Patients with a 
history of skin cancer prior to their haematological malignancy were excluded. 
Cumulative incidences, standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) and absolute excess 
risks for each of the four skin cancers were calculated and stratified by 
haematological malignancy subgroup, age, sex, follow-up and primary treatment.
RESULTS: The overall 10-year cumulative incidence of developing a first skin 
cancer was 2.6% for cSCC, 0.5% for MM, 0.05% for MCC and 4.8% for BCC. Compared 
with the general population, nearly all haematological malignancy subgroups 
showed more than a twofold increased risk of cSCC, MM, MCC and BCC. Patients 
with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) showed the highest risks for each of 
the four skin cancers, with SIRs of 4.4 for cSCC, 2.7 for MM, 9.3 for MCC, and 
2.6 for BCC. These elevated risks persisted for > 30 years after haematological 
malignancy diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with all types of haematological malignancies, and 
especially those with CLL, have a lifetime increased risk of developing 
different types of skin cancer. These findings highlight the importance of 
creating awareness among patients and care providers about this increased risk 
and promoting sun-protective measures and regular skin self-examinations in this 
high-risk population.

Plain Language Summary: Due to advances in treatment, the life expectancy of 
people with blood cancers has improved. Therefore, it is important to understand 
the long-term health risks in these patients. This includes the risk of second 
cancers later in life. Skin cancer is the most common second cancer in patients 
with a blood cancer. A skin cancer called ‘basal cell carcinoma’ is the most 
common skin cancer diagnosis in the Netherlands. This is followed by another 
type called ‘cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma’. Melanoma is a less common type 
of skin cancer and Merkel cell carcinoma is even rarer. We looked at the risks 
of these four skin cancers in people after they were diagnosed with a blood 
cancer. Using data from the Netherlands Cancer Registry, we calculated the risks 
of skin cancers in patients with a blood cancer over 31 years (up to 2021). 
People with nearly all types of blood cancer had twice the risk of developing 
each of the four skin cancers than the general population. People with a type of 
blood cancer called ‘chronic lymphocytic leukaemia’ had the highest risk of 
developing a skin cancer. Our results show that patients and doctors need to 
know about the lifelong risk of skin cancer. As most skin cancers can be 
prevented, it is important for patients to protect their skin from the sun. They 
should also perform regular self-skin checks to detect cancers at an early 
stage.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British 
Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1093/bjd/ljaf027
PMID: 39854282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: M.W. has received 
honoraria for lectures and advisory board meetings from Sanofi, Regeneron and 
Sun Pharma. T.N. is a section editor for the BJD. The other authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


22. Healthcare (Basel). 2024 Nov 22;12(23):2337. doi: 10.3390/healthcare12232337.

Nurse-Led Interventions for Improving Medication Adherence in Chronic Diseases: 
A Systematic Review.

Berardinelli D(1), Conti A(2), Hasnaoui A(3)(4), Casabona E(1), Martin B(5), 
Campagna S(1), Dimonte V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Pediatrics, University of Torino, 10126 
Torino, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Torino, 10126 
Torino, Italy.
(3)Faculty of Medicine of Tunis, Tunis El Manar University, Rue Djebal Lakhdar, 
Tunis 1006, Tunisia.
(4)Signals and Smart Systems Lab L3S, National Engineering School of Tunis, 
Tunis El Manar University, Campus Universitaire Farhat Hached B.P. n° 
94-ROMMANA, Tunis 1068, Tunisia.
(5)General Affairs and Cultural Heritage Directorate, University of Torino, 
10126 Torino, Italy.

Background: Poor medication adherence results in negative health outcomes and 
increased healthcare costs. Several healthcare professionals provide 
interventions to improve medication adherence, with the effectiveness of 
nurse-led interventions in people with chronic diseases remaining unclear. 
Objective: This study sought to evaluate the effectiveness of nurse-led 
interventions for improving medication adherence in adults with chronic 
conditions. Methods: Five databases (MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, 
SCOPUS) were searched without applying a temporal limit. Studies evaluating the 
effects of nurse-led interventions on medication adherence in adults with one or 
multiple chronic conditions were included. Interventions only targeting a single 
acute disease were excluded. Results: A total of twenty-two studies with 5975 
participants were included. Statistically significant improvements in adherence 
were reported in five out of seven studies involving face-to-face visits to 
patients with heart failure (n = 2), chronic myeloid leukemia (n = 1), 
hypertension (n = 1) and multimorbidity (n = 1) and in four out of nine studies 
adopting a mixed method involving face-to-face visits and telephone follow-up 
for patients with heart failure (n = 1), hypertension (n = 1), coronary disease 
(n = 1) and multimorbidity (n = 1). Remote interventions were effective in 
improving medication adherence in one out of six studies. No statistically 
significant differences were found between tablet computer-based patient 
education and nurse-led educational sessions. The motivational approach was 
found to be one of the most common strategies used to promote patient medication 
adherence. Conclusions: Nurse-led face-to-face visits may be effective in 
improving medication adherence in people with chronic diseases. However, further 
research is needed because current methods for measuring medication adherence 
may not accurately capture patient behaviour and medication consumption 
patterns.

DOI: 10.3390/healthcare12232337
PMCID: PMC11641167
PMID: 39684959

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


23. Asia Pac J Oncol Nurs. 2024 Aug 23;11(10):100579. doi: 
10.1016/j.apjon.2024.100579. eCollection 2024 Oct.

CAR T-cell therapy in cancer: Integrating nursing perspectives for enhanced 
patient care.

Gupta A(1), Dagar G(1), Rehmani MU(1), Prasad CP(1), Saini D(2), Singh M(1), 
Shankar A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology (Lab), Dr BR Ambedkar Institute Rotary Cancer 
Hospital, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, India.
(2)Indian Society of Clinical Oncology, Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dr BR Ambedkar Institute Rotary Cancer 
Hospital, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, India.

Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy represents a significant 
advancement in cancer treatment, particularly for hematologic malignancies. 
Various cancer immunotherapy strategies are presently being explored, including 
cytokines, cancer vaccines, immune checkpoint inhibitors, immunomodulators 
monoclonal antibodies, etc. The therapy has shown impressive efficacy in 
treating conditions such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and multiple myeloma, often leading to complete 
remission in refractory cases. However, the clinical application of CAR T-cell 
therapy is accompanied by challenges, notably severe side effects. Effective 
management of these adverse effects requires meticulous monitoring and prompt 
intervention, highlighting the critical role of nursing in this therapeutic 
process. Nurses play a crucial role in patient education, monitoring, symptom 
management, care coordination, and psychosocial support, ensuring safe and 
effective treatment. As research advances and new CAR T-cell therapies are 
developed, the role of nursing professionals remains pivotal in optimizing 
patient outcomes. The continued evolution of CAR T-cell therapy promises 
improved outcomes, with nursing professionals integral to its success.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apjon.2024.100579
PMCID: PMC11417177
PMID: 39315365


24. BMJ Open. 2024 Sep 5;14(9):e084372. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-084372.

Investigating the impact of multidisciplinary prehabilitation on deconditioning 
in patients eligible for haematopoietic allogenic stem cell transplantation: 
protocol for a feasibility trial.

Naumann K(1), Singh B(2), Bushaway S(1), Crane R(1), Deepak S(1), Hartland A(1), 
Konstantopoulos P(1), Mansell E(1), Marinelli V(1), Pallotta V(1), Tolfts A(1), 
Virieux A(1), Wall M(1), Wilksch S(1), Zhuang M(1), Atkinson M(1), Maher C(3).

Author information:
(1)Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(2)University of South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia 
ben.singh@unisa.edu.au.
(3)University of South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Assessing multidisciplinary prehabilitation strategies becomes 
crucial to pre-emptively counter the physical, psychological and social negative 
impacts experienced during an allogenic haematopoietic stem cell transplant 
(allo-HSCT) among acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome 
(MDS) patients. Current evidence is restricted to studies during induction 
chemotherapy, omitting rehabilitation interventions and predominantly using 
exercise-only approaches without a multidisciplinary framework. The aim of this 
study is to investigate the feasibility, safety and preliminary efficacy of 
multidisciplinary prehabilitation in adults offered allo-HSCT.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This 8-week single-group pre-post feasibility study aims 
to pilot a multidisciplinary prehabilitation intervention for participants 
undergoing allo-HSCT, with a focus on feasibility and safety. Participants, aged 
18 or older, diagnosed with AML or MDS, and offered allo-HSCT, will be recruited 
between June 2023 and July 2024. The multidisciplinary prehabilitation 
intervention, conducted by the cancer allied health team at the Royal Adelaide 
Hospital, includes exercise physiology, physiotherapy, dietetics, social work, 
occupational therapy and psychology interventions. Consistent with a 
multidisciplinary treatment approach, each component is tailored to address 
different aspects of patient care, and adherence calculations will assess 
patient engagement and compliance. In addition, participants will continue to 
receive usual care from cancer allied health staff. The primary outcome of the 
study is to assess the feasibility of a multidisciplinary prehabilitation 
intervention by evaluating intervention uptake, retention, adherence, 
acceptability and safety. Secondary outcomes are leg strength, upper-body 
strength, aerobic fitness, falls risk, anthropometry, nutritional status, 
quality of life, anxiety, depression, self-efficacy for coping with cancer and 
distress.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval for this study has been provided by 
the Central Adelaide Local Health Network (HREC 2022/HRE00284). Recruitment for 
the study commenced in June 2023 and will continue until July 2024. The methods 
have been designed and are reported according to the SPIRIT and CONSORT-pilot 
study checklist.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: The Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry 
(ANZCTR): ACTRN12623000052639.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2024-084372
PMCID: PMC11381652
PMID: 39237275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


25. J Cancer Educ. 2025 Feb;40(1):73-78. doi: 10.1007/s13187-024-02473-2. Epub 2024 
Jul 2.

Impact of Chemotherapy Educational Videos for Patients with Acute Myeloid 
Leukemia.

Gabbard T(1), Perissinotti AJ(1), Benitez LL(1), Fraga M(1), Pettit KM(2), Bixby 
DL(2), Burke PW(2), Marini BL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Michigan Medicine and the University of 
Michigan College of Pharmacy, Ann Arbor, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, 
University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Michigan Medicine and the University of 
Michigan College of Pharmacy, Ann Arbor, USA. bernmari@med.umich.edu.

Patient education in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has become increasingly 
complex with the introduction of new treatments and chemotherapy regimens. Video 
education presents an opportunity to supplement traditional patient education 
and address some of the gaps associated with standard methods. This 
single-center study sought to assess the potential impact of supplemental video 
education on patients receiving induction chemotherapy for AML. Participants 
were consented to be randomized to receive their education with or without a 
supplemental video designed for their treatment regimen. We then provided a 
survey to each participant to assess knowledge retention, anxiety, and overall 
satisfaction with their care. Patients that received video education were found 
to have significantly improved knowledge retention compared to those that did 
not. There were no differences detected in anxiety or patient satisfaction. 
Video education appears to be an effective supplemental method for patient 
education in AML. Limitations include the single-center nature of the study at 
an urban academic medical center with a relatively well-educated, primarily 
Caucasian, younger population. Future research is warranted to assess the video 
in a diverse set of languages and to explore its broader benefits.

© 2024. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to American Association for Cancer 
Education.

DOI: 10.1007/s13187-024-02473-2
PMID: 38955941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics Approval: All study 
protocols and procedures were approved by our institutional review board prior 
to implementation. Consent: Informed consent was obtained from all individuals 
included in the study. Competing Interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


26. Acta Haematol. 2025;148(2):233-243. doi: 10.1159/000539756. Epub 2024 Jun 11.

Effect of Digital Health Coaching on Self-Efficacy and Patient-Reported Outcomes 
in Individuals with Acute Myeloid and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: A Pilot 
Randomized Controlled Trial.

Marvin-Peek J(1), Shelton V(2), Brassil K(3), Fellman B(4), Barr A(3), Chien 
KS(5), Hammond D(5), Swaminathan M(5), Jain N(5), Wierda W(5), Ferrajoli A(5), 
DiNardo C(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas, USA, jmarvin@mdanderson.org.
(2)Department of Nursing, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(3)Pack Health, A Quest Diagnostics Company, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas, USA.
(5)Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Promotion of self-efficacy can enhance engagement with health care 
and treatment adherence in patients with cancer. We report the outcomes of a 
pilot trial of a digital health coach intervention in patients with leukemia 
with the aim of improving self-efficacy.
METHODS: Adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) were randomized 1:1 to a digital health coach 
intervention or standard of care. The primary outcome of self-efficacy was 
measured by the Cancer Behavior Inventory (CBI) score.
RESULTS: A total of 147 patients (37 AML, 110 CLL) were enrolled from July 2020 
to December 2022. In the AML cohort, there was a mean increase in CBI score of 
7.03 in the digital health coaching arm compared to a mean decrease of -3.57 in 
the control arm at 30 days (p = 0.219). There were no significant associations 
between the intervention and other patient-reported outcomes for patients with 
CLL.
CONCLUSION: There were numerical, but not statistically significant increases in 
self-efficacy metrics in AML patients who received digital health coaching. 
Although this trial was underpowered due to enrollment limitations during a 
pandemic, digital health coaching may provide benefit to patients with 
hematologic malignancy and warrants further investigation.
INTRODUCTION: Promotion of self-efficacy can enhance engagement with health care 
and treatment adherence in patients with cancer. We report the outcomes of a 
pilot trial of a digital health coach intervention in patients with leukemia 
with the aim of improving self-efficacy.
METHODS: Adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) were randomized 1:1 to a digital health coach 
intervention or standard of care. The primary outcome of self-efficacy was 
measured by the Cancer Behavior Inventory (CBI) score.
RESULTS: A total of 147 patients (37 AML, 110 CLL) were enrolled from July 2020 
to December 2022. In the AML cohort, there was a mean increase in CBI score of 
7.03 in the digital health coaching arm compared to a mean decrease of -3.57 in 
the control arm at 30 days (p = 0.219). There were no significant associations 
between the intervention and other patient-reported outcomes for patients with 
CLL.
CONCLUSION: There were numerical, but not statistically significant increases in 
self-efficacy metrics in AML patients who received digital health coaching. 
Although this trial was underpowered due to enrollment limitations during a 
pandemic, digital health coaching may provide benefit to patients with 
hematologic malignancy and warrants further investigation.

© 2024 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000539756
PMCID: PMC11632142
PMID: 38861934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.D. is supported by the LLS Scholar in Clinical 
Research Award, receives research support (to the institution), and serves as a 
consultant (personal fees) for AbbVie. K.B. and A.B. are employed by Pack 
Health, A Quest Diagnostics Company, which provided the intervention for this 
study. All other authors have no disclosures or potential COIs to report. This 
study was presented in part as a poster at the ASCO Quality Care Symposium in 
2023.


27. Cureus. 2024 Apr 17;16(4):e58488. doi: 10.7759/cureus.58488. eCollection 2024 
Apr.

Evaluating the Readability of Online Blood Cancer Education Materials Across 
Different Readability Measures.

Shin A(1), Banubakode S(1), Taveras Alam S(1), Gonzalez AO(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, McGovern Medical School at UTHealth Houston, 
Houston, USA.

Introduction The National Institutes of Health and the American Medical 
Association recommend patient education materials (EMs) be at or below the 
sixth-grade reading level. The American Cancer Society, Leukemia & Lymphoma 
Society, and National Comprehensive Cancer Network have accurate blood cancer 
EMs. Methods One hundred one (101) blood cancer EMs from the above organizations 
were assessed using the following: Flesch Reading Ease Formula (FREF), 
Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level (FKGL), Gunning Fog Index (GFI), Simple Measure of 
Gobbledygook Index (SMOG), and the Coleman-Liau Index (CLI). Results Only 3.96% 
of patient EMs scored at or below the seventh-grade reading level in all 
modalities. Healthcare professional education materials (HPEMs) averaged around 
the college to graduate level. For leukemia and lymphoma patient EMs, there were 
significant differences for FKGL vs. SMOG, FKGL vs. GFI, FKGL vs. CLI, SMOG vs. 
CLI, and GFI vs. CLI. For HPEMs, there were significant differences for FKGL vs. 
GFI and GFI vs. CLI. Conclusion The majority of patient EMs were above the 
seventh-grade reading level. A lack of easily readable patient EMs could lead to 
a poor understanding of disease and, thus, adverse health outcomes. Overall, 
patient EMs should not replace physician counseling. Physicians must close the 
gaps in patients' understanding throughout their cancer treatment.

Copyright © 2024, Shin et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.58488
PMCID: PMC11101262
PMID: 38765438

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


28. BMJ Open. 2024 Mar 29;14(3):e076321. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-076321.

Tripartite prehabilitation of patients with acute myeloid leukaemia and 
high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes during intensive chemotherapy before 
allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (COHABILIT): protocol for an 
innovating prospective multicentre study.

Saillard C(1), Cuvelier S(2), Villaron-Goetgheluck C(3), Boher JM(4), 
Almeida-Lopez L(4), Le Corroller AG(5), Denis P(6), Rivieccio C(6), Calvin S(3), 
Vey N(1), Bannier-Braticevic C(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Paoli-Calmettes Institute, Marseille, France.
(2)Management Sport Cancer Laboratory, Aix-Marseille University, Marseille, 
France sarah.cuvelier@univ-amu.fr.
(3)Management Sport Cancer Laboratory, Aix-Marseille University, Marseille, 
France.
(4)Department of Clinical Research and Innovations, Paoli-Calmettes Institute, 
Marseille, France.
(5)Economic and Social Sciences of Health and Medical Information Processing 
Laboratory (SESSTIM CANBIOS), National Institute of Health and Medical Research, 
Paris, France.
(6)Department of Sport, Paoli-Calmettes Institute, Marseille, France.
(7)Department of Oncology, Paoli-Calmettes Institute, Marseille, France.

OBJECTIVES: Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and high-risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS) are often treated with intensive chemotherapy followed by 
allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). The 
pretransplant treatment results in a general deterioration of the patient's 
health and quality of life. Furthermore, allo-HSCT can be responsible for 
significant toxicity with risks of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). Developing 
strategies to prevent physical deconditioning, undernutrition and psychological 
distress could help maintain a satisfactory general state of health before 
transplantation and thus limit these deleterious effects. This protocol 
evaluates the feasibility and adherence to a personalised prehabilitation 
programme, which can be modulated and assisted by connected objects, provided 
from the diagnosis to the allo-HSCT.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This multicentre interventional study will include 50 
patients treated for AML or high-risk MDS with intensive chemotherapy and 
eligible for allo-HSCT. The intervention consists of a coached, supervised or 
self-directed physical activity programme, organised during the hospitalisation 
phases and periods at home. At the same time, patients will receive a weekly 
dietary follow-up. The whole intervention is controlled and modulated through 
the use of a dedicated application and connected objects allowing adaptation and 
individualisation. The rate of participation in the prescribed physical activity 
sessions will assess the feasibility of this study. In addition, the evolution 
of physical capacities (Short Physical Performance Battery, grip and quadriceps 
strengths), psychosocial parameters (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - 
Leukaemia, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Fatigue, subjective 
well-being, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, self-efficacy, Coach-Athlete 
Relationship Questionnaire, interviews) and clinical status (weight, lean body 
mass, survival rate, number of infections, days of hospitalisation, GvHD) will 
be evaluated.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study procedures have been approved by the 
National Ethics Committee (21.00223.000003). Consent is given in person by each 
participant. The information collected on the participants contains only a 
non-identifiable study identifier. The results of this protocol will be 
published in a scientific paper and communicated to the medical staff of the 
medical centre.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03595787.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-076321
PMCID: PMC10982723
PMID: 38553062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


29. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2024 Mar 15;28(2):149-156. doi: 10.1188/24.CJON.149-156.

Perianal Injury Prevention in Patients With Leukemia.

Paredes C(1), Reed K(1), Moore L(1), Brant JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Houston Methodist Hospital.
(2)Billings Clinic.

BACKGROUND: Perianal injuries in adults with hematologic malignancies can result 
in sepsis or death. Patients on a 36-bed acute care oncology unit experienced 
increased perianal injuries from 2018 to 2021 based on a chart review, which 
revealed that 24 patients with leukemia, all of whom had received cytarabine, 
developed perianal injuries.
OBJECTIVES: This study examined whether a nurse-led educational intervention 
would decrease perianal injuries.
METHODS: A survey examined baseline nurse knowledge on perianal injuries. Nurses 
received a 10-minute in-service education session about perianal injuries, their 
predisposing factors, and prevention strategies followed by a survey to test 
their knowledge. Twenty nurses completed the pre- and postintervention surveys.
FINDINGS: After the intervention, staff knowledge increased by 33%. One year 
postintervention, perianal injuries had decreased by more than 50%. Nurse and 
patient education are vital to decrease perianal injuries in patients with 
leukemia.

DOI: 10.1188/24.CJON.149-156
PMID: 38511911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Cureus. 2024 Jan 11;16(1):e52120. doi: 10.7759/cureus.52120. eCollection 2024 
Jan.

A Case of Successful Rehabilitation for Controlling Chronic Pain Following 
Osteonecrosis of the Femoral Head in a Young Adult Cancer Survivor.

Aoyama T(1), Matsuoka M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Human Health Sciences, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto, JPN.
(2)Department of Child Health Nursing, Mie University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Tsu city, JPN.

A 26-year-old woman previously treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 14 
years ago faced challenges in managing chronic pain resulting from right femoral 
head necrosis, a complication of her earlier ALL treatment. Ultimately, the 
persistent chronic pain was successfully treated via a comprehensive 
rehabilitation approach. The patient presented with hip contractures, muscle 
weakness, and reduced endurance without evident arthropathic changes or 
inflammatory findings in the femoral head. Active physiotherapy was implemented 
with the primary objective of increasing her social activity. This therapeutic 
intervention effectively managed the severe pain without the necessity for 
analgesic drugs, leading to a significant improvement in the patient's social 
activity. Recognizing the adolescent and young adult age group as a critical 
phase of physical, psychological, and social development, cancer survivors 
within this age group require multimodal care. This study highlights the role of 
stepwise rehabilitation treatments involving stretching, muscle strengthening, 
and endurance training, particularly in challenging cases of chronic pain. 
Post-treatment interviews revealed that successful experiences in each movement 
contributed to increased self-efficacy and promoted not only the control of 
chronic pain but also fostered improvements in social activities.

Copyright © 2024, Aoyama et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.52120
PMCID: PMC10858799
PMID: 38344496

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


31. Patient Educ Couns. 2024 Jun;123:108177. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2024.108177. Epub 
2024 Feb 1.

Balancing risks and rewards: How hematologists discuss uncertainty in allogeneic 
hematopoietic cell transplantation outcomes.

Rodenbach RA(1), Thordardottir T(2), Brauer M(3), Hall AC(2), Ward E(4), Smith 
CB(5), Campbell TC(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic 
address: rachel_rodenbach@urmc.rochester.edu.
(2)University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center, Madison, WI, USA.
(3)University of Wisconsin Department of Psychology, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center, Madison, WI, USA; University 
of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Department of Family Medicine 
and Community Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (alloHCT) offers many 
patients with blood cancers a chance of cure but carries risks. We characterized 
how hematologists discuss the high-risk, high-reward concept of alloHCT.
METHODS: Qualitative analysis of video-recorded virtual encounters of 
hematologists who routinely perform alloHCT with actors portraying an older man 
recently diagnosed with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome.
RESULTS: Hematologists (n = 37) were a median age of 44 years, 65% male, and 68% 
white. They frequently used "teeter-totter" language that juxtaposed alloHCT's 
risks and rewards in a dynamic, quickly alternating fashion and communicated 
uncertainty in transplant outcomes. This dialogue oscillated between 
encouragement about alloHCT's potential for cure and caution about its risks and 
occurred within single speech turns and in exchanges between hematologist and 
patient. Fewer hematologists outlined their big-picture stance on transplant's 
risks and benefits early in the conversation. Meanwhile, hematologists varied in 
how they counseled patients to manage transplant-related uncertainty and 
consider treatment decision making.
CONCLUSION: Hematologists use "teeter-totter" language to express hope and 
concern, confidence and uncertainty, and encouragement and caution about the 
high-risk, high-reward nature of alloHCT.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Teeter-totter language may help frame big-picture content 
about alloHCT's risks and benefits that is essential for patient education and 
decision making.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2024.108177
PMCID: PMC10997451
PMID: 38341898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Rachel Rodenbach reports financial 
support was provided by National Heart Lung and Blood Institute. Markus Brauer 
reports financial support was provided by University of Wisconsin-Madison Office 
of the Vice Chancellor for Research and Graduate Education.


32. Cureus. 2023 Nov 30;15(11):e49724. doi: 10.7759/cureus.49724. eCollection 2023 
Nov.

Factors Affecting the Adoption of Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Virtual 
Assistants for Leukemia Self-Management.

Alanzi T(1), Almahdi R(2), Alghanim D(3), Almusmili L(4), Saleh A(5), Alanazi 
S(6), Alshobaki K(7), Attar R(7), Al Qunais A(8), Alzahrani H(9), Alshehri 
R(10), Sulail A(11), Alblwi A(7), Alanzi N(12), Alanzi N(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Information Management and Technology, College of Public 
Health, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, SAU.
(2)College of Medicine, Al Baha University, Al Baha, SAU.
(3)College of Medicine and Surgery, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, 
Dublin, IRL.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Jazan University, Jazan, SAU.
(5)Faculty of Pharmacy, Ibnsina National College of Medical Studies, Jeddah, 
SAU.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Almoosa Specialist Hospital, Al Mubarraz, SAU.
(7)College of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, SAU.
(8)College of Medicine, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, SAU.
(9)Department of Hematology, Armed Forces Hospital at King Abdulaziz Airbase 
Dhahran, Dhahran, SAU.
(10)College of Medicine, Taif University, Taif, SAU.
(11)College of Public Health, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, 
SAU.
(12)Department of Blood Bank, Regional Laboratory and Blood Banks Arar, Arar, 
SAU.
(13)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Jouf University, Jouf, SAU.

AIM AND PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to analyze the various influencing 
factors affecting the adoption of artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled virtual 
assistants (VAs) for self-management of leukemia.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey design is adopted in this study. The 
questionnaire included eight factors (performance expectancy, effort expectancy, 
social influence, facilitating conditions, behavioral intention, trust, 
perceived privacy risk, and personal innovativeness) affecting the acceptance of 
AI-enabled virtual assistants. A total of 397 leukemia patients participated in 
the online survey.
RESULTS: Performance expectancy (μ = 3.14), effort expectancy (μ = 3.05), and 
personal innovativeness (μ = 3.14) were identified to be the major influencing 
factors of AI adoption. Statistically significant differences (p < .05) were 
observed between the gender-based and age groups of the participants in relation 
to the various factors. In addition, perceived privacy risks were negatively 
correlated with all other factors.
CONCLUSION: Although there are negative factors such as privacy risks and 
ethical issues in AI adoption, perceived effectiveness and ease of use among 
individuals are leading to greater adoption of AI-enabled VAs.

Copyright © 2023, Alanzi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.49724
PMCID: PMC10757561
PMID: 38161825

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


33. Transpl Infect Dis. 2023 Nov;25 Suppl 1:e14197. doi: 10.1111/tid.14197. Epub 
2023 Nov 21.

Approach to diagnostic evaluation and prevention of invasive fungal disease in 
patients prior to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant.

O'Keeffe JC(1), Singh N(2)(3), Slavin MA(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Victorian Infectious Diseases Service, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(4)Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

In recent years, advancements in the treatment landscape for hematological 
malignancies, such as acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 
have significantly improved disease prognosis and overall survival. However, the 
treatment landscape is changing and the emergence of targeted oral therapies and 
immune-based treatments has brought forth new challenges in evaluating and 
preventing invasive fungal diseases (IFDs). IFD disproportionately affects 
immunocompromised hosts, particularly those undergoing therapy for acute 
leukemia and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. This review aims to 
provide a comprehensive overview of the pretransplant workup, identification, 
and prevention of IFD in patients with hematological malignancy. The 
pretransplant period offers a critical window to assess each patient's risk 
factors and implement appropriate prophylactic measures. Risk assessment 
includes evaluation of disease, host, prior treatments, and environmental 
factors, allowing a dynamic evaluation that considers disease progression and 
treatment course. Diagnostic screening, involving various biomarkers and 
radiological modalities, plays a crucial role in early detection of IFD. 
Antifungal prophylaxis choice is based on available evidence as well as 
individual risk assessment, potential for drug-drug interactions, toxicity, and 
patient adherence. Therapeutic drug monitoring ensures effective antifungal 
stewardship and optimal treatment. Patient education and counselling are vital 
in minimizing environmental exposures to fungal pathogens and promoting 
medication adherence. A well-structured and individualized approach, 
encompassing risk assessment, prophylaxis, surveillance, and patient education, 
is essential for effectively preventing IFD in hematological malignancies, 
ultimately leading to improved patient outcomes and overall survival.

© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/tid.14197
PMID: 37988269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2024 Feb;68:102455. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2023.102455. Epub 2023 
Nov 10.

Making decisions for follow-up chemotherapy based on digital patient reported 
outcomes data in patients with multiple myeloma and other M protein diseases - A 
mixed method study.

Rosenberg T(1), Kirkegaard J(2), Tveden MG(3), Hyldig N(4), Dieperink KB(5), 
Steffensen NH(2), Ulriksen SB(2), Lund T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Odense University Hospital, Kloevervaenget 10, 12th 
Floor, 5000, Odense C, Denmark; Department of Clinical Research, University of 
Southern Denmark, J.B. Winsløws Vej 19.3, DK-5000, Odense C, Denmark. Electronic 
address: tine.rosenberg@rsyd.dk.
(2)Department of Hematology, Odense University Hospital, Kloevervaenget 10, 12th 
Floor, 5000, Odense C, Denmark.
(3)Department of Hematology, Odense University Hospital, Kloevervaenget 10, 12th 
Floor, 5000, Odense C, Denmark; Department of Clinical Research, University of 
Southern Denmark, J.B. Winsløws Vej 19.3, DK-5000, Odense C, Denmark.
(4)Department of Hematology, Odense University Hospital, Kloevervaenget 10, 12th 
Floor, 5000, Odense C, Denmark; Research Unit of Oncology, The Academy of 
Geriatric Cancer Research (www.agecare.org) Odense University Hospital, Sdr. 
Boulevard 29, 5000, Odense C, Denmark.
(5)Research Unit of Oncology, The Academy of Geriatric Cancer Research 
(www.agecare.org) Odense University Hospital, Sdr. Boulevard 29, 5000, Odense C, 
Denmark; Department of Clinical Research, University of Southern Denmark, J.B. 
Winsløws Vej 19.3, DK-5000, Odense C, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: To test if Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO) data can replace physical 
on-site consultation in determining if patients with multiple myeloma, AL 
amyloidosis, or plasma cell leukemia are ready for their next bortezomib 
treatment without dose reduction.
METHODS: We developed an online questionnaire addressing common side effects to 
bortezomib and an algorithm stratifying patients according to their responses 
and asked them to complete the questionnaire the day before attending the 
clinic. Applying a mixed-method study design of PRO data, time registrations, 
and interviews with patients and healthcare professionals, we tested the 
usability of electronic PRO data forming the basis of decision-making on whether 
patients are physically fit for the next treatment with an unchanged dose.
RESULTS: The questionnaire and the associated algorithm were able to identify 
patients who were physically fit for treatment without need for further 
consultation, with a positive predictive value of 98 %. The method proved to be 
feasible for all groups of patients regardless of age and educational level. 
Patients and healthcare professionals found the online questionnaire to be 
advantageous and flexible.
CONCLUSION: The use of PRO data to evaluate patients prior to bortezomib 
treatment is safe and feasible. Patients prefer to report their side effects 
themselves as it provides them with more freedom during their treatment.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2023.102455
PMID: 37984313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


35. Blood Adv. 2023 Nov 28;7(22):6819-6828. doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2023010879.

Results of VOICE: a global survey of disease-specific knowledge and perspectives 
of real-world patients with CLL.

Tam C(1), Pinilla-Ibarz J(2), Castillo CG(3), Fenili AC(4), Huntley K(5), 
Karakus V(6), Mattar M(7), Miroli MA(8), Moura C(9), Pavlovsky M(10), Piotrowski 
F(11), Šimkovič M(12), Stilgenbauer S(13).

Author information:
(1)Lymphoma Service, Alfred Hospital and Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(2)Department of Malignant Hematology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL.
(3)Department of Hematology, Hospital Star Medica Lomas Verdes, Mexico City, 
Mexico.
(4)Hospital Nossa Senhora da Conceição, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(5)Health Services, Leukaemia Foundation, Brisbane, Australia.
(6)Department of Hematology, Antalya Research and Training Hospital, Antalya, 
Turkey.
(7)Hematology Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Cairo University, Giza, 
Egypt.
(8)Hospital Médico Policial Churruca-Visca, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(9)Associaçäo Brasileira De Linfoma E Leucemia, São Paulo, Brazil.
(10)Department of Hematology, Fundacion para Combatir la Leucemia, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(11)Asociación Leucemia Mieloide de Argentina, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(12)4th Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Hradec Králové, 
Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.
(13)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.

The Virtual Opinions poll Independent Centered on CLL patients' Experience 
(VOICE) evaluated patients' knowledge about chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 
their perspectives on diagnosis and treatment, and their unmet needs. Clinicians 
and patient advocacy group representatives developed and distributed the survey 
from March through December 2022 in 12 countries, and 377 patients with ≥1 line 
of previous CLL treatment responded from Europe, Latin America, the United 
States, Australia, Egypt, and Turkey. A majority of them (90%; 336/374) relied 
on their physicians for information regarding CLL and treatment. If at high 
risk, respondents prefer oral medications to intravenous (78%; 232/296), fixed 
duration treatment over treatment until progression (69%; 185/270), outpatient 
over inpatient treatments (91%; 257/283). Over three-fourths of respondents 
(78%; 286/368) wanted to be involved in treatment decisions, but a minority 
actually participated (44%; 138/313). COVID-19 vaccinations were widely 
available (97%; 273/281), but one-fifth (19%; 63/331) were unaware that CLL 
increases vulnerability to infections. Most patients' physicians explained their 
treatment options (84%; 297/355), and 90% (271/301) understood their treatment. 
Notably, >10% would continue treatment normally if they experienced cardiac 
problems or arrhythmias, whereas 23% would consider stopping treatment if they 
developed skin cancer. Treatment-associated side effects affected 27% to 43% of 
patients. These results in a global patient population highlight gaps in 
patients' knowledge of risk groups, their susceptibility to infections including 
COVID, and the side effects of common treatments. Such knowledge can guide the 
appropriate targeting of patient education initiatives by clinicians, advocates, 
and policymakers.

© 2023 by The American Society of Hematology. Licensed under Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), 
permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2023010879
PMCID: PMC10679812
PMID: 37722356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: C.T. received 
support from BeiGene for the preparation of this manuscript. In addition, his 
institution receives research funding from Janssen and AbbVie, and he has 
received honoraria from BeiGene, Janssen, and AbbVie. J.P.-I. has received 
consulting fees from Novartis, Lilly, Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), and Merck. He 
has also received consulting and speakers’ bureau fees from 
Janssen/Pharmacyclics, AbbVie, Genentech, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, BeiGene, and 
Takeda. A.C.F. has received speakers’ bureau fees from AstraZeneca, AbbVie, and 
Janssen, and she has participated in advisory boards for AstraZeneca and AbbVie. 
In addition, she has received travel support for the European Hematology 
Association Congress and a preceptorship. K.H. has indirectly received support 
via institutional grants, contracts, and consulting fees from AbbVie, 
AstraZeneca, BeiGene, Gilead, Janssen, Lilly, and Roche. M.A.M. has received 
payments for lectures, presentations, speakers’ bureaus, manuscript writing or 
educational events from AbbVie, Janssen, and AstraZeneca. M.P. has received 
payment or honoraria from, and participated in advisory boards for Janssen, 
AstraZeneca, and AbbVie. He has also received travel support from Roche and 
Raffo. F.P.’s institution (Asociación Leucemia Mieloide de Argentina) receives 
grants from Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceuticals, AbbVie, Pint-Pharma, Varifarma, and 
Pfizer. M.S. has received travel support from, and participated in advisory 
boards for AbbVie, AstraZeneca, and Janssen-Cilag. He also owns stock or stock 
options in AbbVie, AstraZeneca, BeiGene, Merck, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, 
and Novartis. S.S. has received consulting fees, research funding, speakers 
bureau payments, and honoraria from and participated in advisory boards for 
AbbVie, Acerta, Amgen, AstraZeneca, BeiGene, BMS, Celgene, Genentech, Gilead, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Hoffmann-La Roche, Incyte, Infinity, Janssen, Novartis, 
Pharmacyclics, Sunesis, and Verastem. C.G.C., V.K., M.M., C.M. declare no 
competing financial interests.


36. Dent Clin North Am. 2023 Oct;67(4):663-665. doi: 10.1016/j.cden.2023.05.016. 
Epub 2023 Jun 18.

A Patient Undergoing Treatment of Hematologic Malignancy Reports for Oral 
Evaluation.

Mirfendereski P(1), France K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Dental 
Medicine, 240 South 40th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(2)Department of Oral Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Dental 
Medicine, 240 South 40th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic 
address: kfrance@upenn.edu.

Oral lesions are commonly seen in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 
may be the first clinical signs of disease. It is important for the dental 
provider to be able to recognize the oral manifestations of AML to allow for 
timely referral to a medical specialist. Patients with AML may receive treatment 
through chemotherapy, targeted drug therapies, or stem cell transplantation, 
which can involve oral complications and therefore necessitate case-specific 
patient education, dental evaluation, and treatment planning.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cden.2023.05.016
PMID: 37714619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Med Internet Res. 2023 Sep 15;25:e45259. doi: 10.2196/45259.

Improvement, Implementation, and Evaluation of the CMyLife Digital Care 
Platform: Participatory Action Research Approach.

Verweij L(1), Metsemakers SJJPM(1), Ector GICG(1), Rademaker P(1), Bekker CL(2), 
van Vlijmen B(2), van der Reijden BA(3), Blijlevens NMA(#)(1), Hermens 
RPMG(#)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(3)Laboratory of Hematology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Radboud 
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(4)Department of IQ Healthcare, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The evaluation of a continuously evolving eHealth tool in terms of 
improvement and implementation in daily practice is unclear. The CMyLife digital 
care platform provides patient-centered care by empowering patients with chronic 
myeloid leukemia, with a focus on making medication compliance insightful, 
discussable, and optimal, and achieving optimal control of the biomarker 
BCR-ABL1.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate to what extent the 
participatory action research approach is suitable for the improvement and 
scientific evaluation of eHealth innovations in daily clinical practice 
(measured by user experiences) combined with the promotion of patient 
empowerment.
METHODS: The study used iterative cycles of planning, action, and reflection, 
whereby participants' experiences (patients, health care providers, the CMyLife 
team, and app suppliers) with the platform determined next actions. Co-design 
workshops were the foundation of this cyclic process. Moreover, patients filled 
in 2 sets of questionnaires for assessing experiences with CMyLife, the actual 
use of the platform, and the influence of the platform after 3 and at least 6 
months. Data collected during the workshops were analyzed using content 
analysis, which is often used for making a practical guide to action. 
Descriptive statistics were used to characterize the study population in terms 
of information related to chronic myeloid leukemia and sociodemographics, and to 
describe experiences with the CMyLife digital care platform and the actual use 
of this platform.
RESULTS: The co-design workshops provided insights that contributed to the 
improvement, implementation, and evaluation of CMyLife and empowered patients 
with chronic myeloid leukemia (for example, simplification of language, and 
improvement of the user friendliness of functionalities). The results of the 
questionnaires indicated that (1) the platform improved information provision on 
chronic myeloid leukemia in 67% (33/49) of patients, (2) the use of the 
medication app improved medication compliance in 42% (16/38) of patients, (3) 
the use of the guideline app improved guideline adherence in 44% (11/25) of 
patients, and (4) the use of the platform caused patients to feel more 
empowered.
CONCLUSIONS: A participatory action research approach is suited to 
scientifically evaluate digital care platforms in daily clinical practice in 
terms of improvement, implementation, and patient empowerment. Systematic 
iterative evaluation of users' needs and wishes is needed to keep care centered 
on patients and keep the innovation up-to-date and valuable for users.

©Lynn Verweij, Sanne J J P M Metsemakers, Geneviève I C G Ector, Peter 
Rademaker, Charlotte L Bekker, Bas van Vlijmen, Bert A van der Reijden, Nicole M 
A Blijlevens, Rosella P M G Hermens. Originally published in the Journal of 
Medical Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org), 15.09.2023.

DOI: 10.2196/45259
PMCID: PMC10541637
PMID: 37713242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


38. Integr Cancer Ther. 2023 Jan-Dec;22:15347354231191984. doi: 
10.1177/15347354231191984.

Optimizing Fertility Treatment With Nutrition Guidance: Exploring Barriers and 
Facilitators to Healthful Nutrition Among Female Cancer Survivors With Fertility 
Challenges.

Klobodu C(1)(2), Deutsch J(1), Vitolins MZ(3), Fisher K(1), Nasser JA(1), Stott 
D(1), Milliron BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)California State University Chico, Chico, CA, USA.
(3)Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Young women diagnosed with cancer are at an increased risk for 
infertility compared to women without a cancer diagnosis. Consuming a healthful 
diet comprised of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and unsaturated fats has 
been found to improve both fertility and cancer survivorship. Given this reason, 
dietary interventions tailored to support female cancer survivors with fertility 
challenges are of immense importance. Therefore, the aim of this study was to 
explore barriers and facilitators to healthful nutrition among female cancer 
survivors with fertility challenges, to inform the development of dietary 
interventions for this population.
METHODS: Using a formative research design, interview, survey, and dietary 
intake data were collected from 20 female cancer survivors of reproductive age. 
Participant-check focus group discussions were conducted to validate findings. 
All interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim. Transcripts were coded 
and analyzed using a thematic analysis approach. Quantitative data were analyzed 
using means, standard deviations, ranges, frequencies, and percentages.
RESULTS: The average age of respondents was 31.47 ± 3.5 years and the average 
BMI was 24.78 ± 4.1 kg/m2. All participants were college educated, 45% 
identified as White, 50% as Black, and 10% as Hispanic or Latinx. Cancer 
diagnoses included breast, thyroid, ovarian, leukemia, and gastrointestinal 
cancers. The following themes were identified: (1) Lack of nutrition-related 
resources and detailed guidance, (2) Work-life balance, (3) Perceived rigidity 
of dietary guidance, (4) Treatment-related fatigue, (5) Having trust in 
healthcare providers, (6) Higher motivation to change nutrition behavior, and 
(7) Recognizing the additional benefits of nutrition.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate a sought-after yet unmet need for 
post-cancer treatment fertility nutrition recommendations. Interventions should 
be tailored to women's needs and focus on improving their self-efficacy to make 
healthful dietary choices.

DOI: 10.1177/15347354231191984
PMCID: PMC10416655
PMID: 37559460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


39. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2023 Nov;61(11):520-524. doi: 10.5414/CP204275.

Acute myeloid leukemia after 10 years of azathioprine treatment for Crohn's 
disease.

Nouha T, Asma M, Nadia B, Emna BM, Yosra Z, Yosra S.

BACKGROUND: Azathioprine, which is an immunosuppressive agent commonly used for 
chronic inflammatory bowel disease, may be associated with an increased risk of 
certain cancers such as hematologic malignancies.
CASE REPORT: A 50-year-old man with a 27-year history of Crohn's disease had 
been under azathioprine treatment at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg/day (150 mg/day) since 
2007, after ileocecal resection to avoid postoperative recurrences. Ten years 
later, the patient presented with a 3-week history of worsening general 
condition and fever. The physical examination revealed skin paleness and fever. 
The biological assessment showed pancytopenia. Hematological toxicity of 
azathioprine was suspected. The drug was immediately stopped. A bone marrow 
biopsy with immunophenotyping studies confirmed the diagnosis of acute myeloid 
leukemia. Chemotherapy was indicated but the patient passed away 2 weeks later.
CONCLUSION: Azathioprine may be implicated in therapy-related acute myeloid 
leukemia. Close monitoring of its hematological toxicity, as well as patient 
education to adhere to this monitoring program, are crucial to detect this 
life-threatening complication.

DOI: 10.5414/CP204275
PMID: 37548454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Patient Educ Couns. 2023 Oct;115:107883. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2023.107883. Epub 
2023 Jul 5.

Personalizing precision medicine: Patients with AML perceptions about treatment 
decisions.

Grauman Å(1), Kontro M(2), Haller K(3), Nier S(4), Aakko S(5), Lang K(3), 
Zingaretti C(6), Meggiolaro E(7), De Padova S(7), Marconi G(8), Martinelli G(9), 
Heckman CA(5), Simonetti G(10), Bullinger L(3), Kihlbom U(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden. Electronic address: asa.grauman@crb.uu.se.
(2)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland; Department of Hematology, Helsinki University, Helsinki, 
Finland; Foundation for the Finnish Cancer Institute, Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of Hematology, Oncology, and Cancer Immunology, 
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Acute Leukemia Advocates Network, Bern, Switzerland.
(5)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(6)Unit of Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo 
Studio dei Tumori (IRST) "Dino Amadori", Meldola, FC, Italy.
(7)Psycho-oncology Service, Palliative care, Pain therapy and Integrative 
Medicine Unit, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori (IRST) "Dino 
Amadori", Meldola, FC, Italy.
(8)Hematology Unit, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori (IRST) 
"Dino Amadori", Meldola, FC, Italy.
(9)Scientific Directorate, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori 
(IRST) "Dino Amadori", Meldola, FC, Italy.
(10)Biosciences Laboratory, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori 
(IRST) "Dino Amadori", Meldola, FC, Italy.
(11)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden; Stockholm Centre for Health Care Ethics (CHE), LIME, 
Karoliniska Institutet, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to explore patients' with acute myeloid leukemia 
perceptions about precision medicine and their preferences for involvement in 
this new area of shared decision-making.
METHODS: Individual semi-structured interviews were conducted in Finland, Italy 
and Germany (n = 16). The study population included patients aged 24-79 years. 
Interviews were analyzed with thematic content analysis.
RESULTS: Patient's perceived lack of knowledge as a barrier for their 
involvement in decision-making. Treatment decisions were often made rapidly 
based on the patient's intuition and trust for the physician rather than on 
information, in situations that decrease the patient's decision capacity. The 
patients emphasized that they are in a desperate situation that makes them 
willing to accept treatment with low probabilities of being cured.
CONCLUSIONS: The study raised important issues regarding patients' understanding 
of precision medicine and challenges concerning how to involve patients in 
medical decision-making. Although technical advances were viewed positively, the 
role of the physician as an expert and person-of-trust cannot be replaced.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Regardless of patients' preferences for involvement in 
decision-making, information plays a crucial role for patients' perceived 
involvement in their care. The concepts related to precision medicine are 
complex and will imply challenges to patient education.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2023.107883
PMID: 37421687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


41. JMIR Cancer. 2023 Jul 6;9:e44533. doi: 10.2196/44533.

A Mobile App to Support Self-Management in Patients with Multiple Myeloma or 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial.

LeBlanc MR(1)(2)(3), LeBlanc TW(3)(4), Yang Q(5), McLaughlin J(6), Irish 
K(7)(8), Smith SK(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
NC, United States.
(2)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel 
Hill, NC, United States.
(3)Duke Cancer Institute, Durham, NC, United States.
(4)School of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, NC, United States.
(5)School of Nursing, Duke University, Durham, NC, United States.
(6)Pattern Health, Durham, NC, United States.
(7)AdventHealth Cancer Services, Asheville, NC, United States.
(8)Dempsey Centers for Quality Cancer Care, Lewiston, ME, United States.

BACKGROUND: Patients with blood cancer experience serious physical and emotional 
symptoms throughout their cancer journey.
OBJECTIVE: Building on previous work, we aimed to develop an app designed to 
help patients with multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia self-manage 
symptoms and test it for acceptability and preliminary efficacy.
METHODS: We developed our Blood Cancer Coach app with input from clinicians and 
patients. Our 2-armed randomized controlled pilot trial recruited participants 
from Duke Health and nationally in partnerships with the Association of Oncology 
Social Work, Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, and other patient groups. 
Participants were randomized to the attention control (Springboard Beyond Cancer 
website) arm or the Blood Cancer Coach app intervention arm. The fully automated 
Blood Cancer Coach app included symptom and distress tracking with tailored 
feedback, medication reminders and adherence tracking, multiple myeloma and 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia education resources, and mindfulness activities. 
Patient-reported data were collected at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks for both 
arms through the Blood Cancer Coach app. Outcomes of interest were global health 
(Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Global Health), 
posttraumatic stress (Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Checklist for DSM-5), and 
cancer symptoms (Edmonton Symptom Assessment System Revised). Among participants 
in the intervention arm, satisfaction surveys and usage data were used to 
evaluate acceptability.
RESULTS: Among 180 patients who downloaded the app, 49% (89) of them consented 
to participate and 40% (72) of them completed baseline surveys. Of those who 
completed baseline surveys, 53% (38) of them completed week 4 surveys (16 
intervention and 22 control) and 39% (28) of them completed week 8 surveys (13 
intervention and 15 control). Most participants found the app at least 
moderately effective at helping manage symptoms (87%), feeling more comfortable 
seeking help (87%), increasing awareness of resources (73%), and reported being 
satisfied with the app overall (73%). Participants completed an average of 248.5 
app tasks over the 8-week study period. The most used functions within the app 
were medication log, distress tracking, guided meditations, and symptom 
tracking. There were no significant differences between the control and 
intervention arms at week 4 or 8 on any outcomes. We also saw no significant 
improvement over time within the intervention arm.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our feasibility pilot were promising in which most 
participants found the app to be helpful in managing their symptoms, reported 
satisfaction with the app, and that it was helpful in several important areas. 
We did not, however, find significantly reduced symptoms or improved global 
mental and physical health over 2 months. Recruitment and retention were 
challenging for this app-based study, an experience echoed by others. 
Limitations included a predominantly White and college educated sample. Future 
studies would do well to include self-efficacy outcomes, target those with more 
symptoms, and emphasize diversity in recruitment and retention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT05928156; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05928156.

©Matthew R LeBlanc, Thomas W LeBlanc, Qing Yang, Jennifer McLaughlin, Kerry 
Irish, Sophia K Smith. Originally published in JMIR Cancer 
(https://cancer.jmir.org), 06.07.2023.

DOI: 10.2196/44533
PMCID: PMC10360008
PMID: 37410541

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: TWL is currently or has 
recently been a consultant for or has received honoraria from AbbVie, Agilix, 
Agios/Servier, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Beigene, BlueNote, BMS/Celgene, CareVive, 
Flatiron, Genentech, GSK, Lilly, Meter Health, Novartis, and Pfizer. TWL has 
served on recent advisory boards for AbbVie, Agios, and BMS. TWL has received 
honoraria from AbbVie, Agios, Astellas, BMS/Celgene, and Incyte for recent 
speaking engagements has equity interest in Dosentrx. TWL has received recent 
research funding from the AbbVie, American Cancer Society, AstraZeneca, BMS, 
Deverra Therapeutics, Duke University, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, the Leukemia and 
Lymphoma Society, the National Institute of Nursing Research/ National 
Institutes of Health, and Seattle Genetics.


42. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2023 Mar 31;69(3):98-102. doi: 
10.14715/cmb/2023.69.3.13.

The effect of nursing intervention on self-care self-efficacy and genes related 
to anxiety in patients with bone marrow transplantation.

Xue Wang(1), Hongyue Yang(1), Xiaoling Zhang(1), Qi Fan(1).

Author information:
(1)The Third Affiliated Clinical Hospital of Changchun University of Chinese 
Medicine, Changchun, Jilin, 130000, China. 76660554@qq.com.

Leukemia patients, after bone marrow transplantation, face many problems that 
hurt their self-efficacy in self-care. The present study aimed to determine the 
effect of health promotion strategies on the self-efficacy of patients 
undergoing bone marrow transplantation in self-care. The expression level of two 
genes affecting anxiety (i.e., 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (5-HT1A) and 
Corticotropin Releasing Hormone Receptor 1 (CRHR1)) was also investigated. For 
this purpose, this semi-experimental study was conducted before and after in 
bone marrow transplant candidate patients. Sixty patients were randomly divided 
into test and control groups. The test group received training on health 
promotion strategies, and the control group was treated according to the 
department's routine. Then the self-efficacy of the two groups was compared 
before and thirty days after the intervention. Also, the expression level of two 
genes was done by real-time PCR. Data analysis was done using descriptive 
statistics and paired t-tests, independent t-tests, analysis of covariance, and 
chi-square in SPSS 11.5 software. The results showed that there was no 
significant difference between the demographic variables of the two groups. The 
self-efficacy of the test group in the general scale and dimensions of 
adaptability, decision-making, and stress reduction increased compared to the 
control group and themselves before the training (p>0.001). The difference in 
self-efficacy scores in all dimensions before the intervention was statistically 
significant (p<0.05). The genetic evaluations also confirmed the obtained 
results. According to the expression of 5-HT1A and CRHR1 genes, the level of 
these genes which directly relate to anxiety were significantly decreased after 
intervention in the test group. In general, teaching health promotion strategies 
to bone marrow transplant patients can increase the confidence of these patients 
in taking care of themselves in the treatment process, which will ultimately 
lead to more survival and a higher quality of life in these patients.

DOI: 10.14715/cmb/2023.69.3.13
PMID: 37300683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. PLoS One. 2023 May 16;18(5):e0285420. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0285420. 
eCollection 2023.

A longitudinal multidimensional rehabilitation program for patients undergoing 
allogeneic blood and marrow transplantation (CaRE-4-alloBMT): Protocol for a 
phase II feasibility pilot randomized controlled trial.

Tam S(1)(2), Kumar R(3), Lopez P(2), Mattsson J(3), Alibhai S(4)(5), Atenafu 
EG(6), Bernstein LJ(2)(7), Chang E(2), Clarke S(3), Langelier D(2), Lipton J(3), 
Mayo S(8), Papadakos T(9)(10), Jones JM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Supportive Care, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University 
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Hans Messner Allogeneic Transplant Program, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, 
University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)General Internal Medicine, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Faculty of Nursing, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health 
Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(9)Cancer Education, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(10)Patient Education, Ontario Health, Cancer Care Ontario, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Allogeneic blood and marrow transplantation (alloBMT) is a curative 
treatment for blood cancers associated with various treatment-related adverse 
events and morbidities. Current rehabilitation programs are limited for patients 
undergoing alloBMT and research is urgently needed to test the acceptability and 
effectiveness of these programs. In response, we developed a 6-month 
multidimensional longitudinal rehabilitation program that spans from pre 
transplant to 3 months post transplant discharge (CaRE-4-alloBMT).
METHODS: This study is a phase II randomized controlled trial (RCT) conducted at 
the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre in patients undergoing alloBMT. A total of 
80 patients stratified by frailty score will be randomized to receive usual care 
(n = 40) or CaRE-4-alloBMT plus usual care (n = 40). The CaRE-4-alloBMT program 
includes individualized exercise prescriptions, access to online education 
through a dedicated self-management platform, wearable technology for remote 
monitoring, and remote tailored clinical support. Feasibility will be assessed 
by examining the recruitment and retention rates and adherence to the 
intervention. Safety events will be monitored. Acceptability of the intervention 
will be assessed through qualitative interviews. Secondary clinical outcomes 
will be collected through questionnaires and physiological assessments at 
baseline (T0, 2-6 weeks pre-transplant), transplant hospital admission (T1), 
hospital discharge (T2), and 3 months post-discharge (T3).
CONCLUSION: This pilot RCT study will determine the feasibility and 
acceptability of the intervention and study design and will inform full-scale 
RCT planning.

Copyright: © 2023 Tam et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0285420
PMCID: PMC10187908
PMID: 37192195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


44. J Cancer Surviv. 2024 Aug;18(4):1285-1296. doi: 10.1007/s11764-023-01370-9. Epub 
2023 Apr 6.

Perceptions of prescription opioids among marginalized patients with hematologic 
malignancies in the context of the opioid epidemic: a qualitative study.

Nabulsi NA(1), Nazari JL(2), Lee TA(2), Patel PR(3), Sweiss KI(4), Le T(5), 
Sharp LK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Systems, Outcomes and Policy, College of Pharmacy, 
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. nnabul2@uic.edu.
(2)Department of Pharmacy Systems, Outcomes and Policy, College of Pharmacy, 
University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacy Practice, University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(5)College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

PURPOSE: Opioids are essential for treating pain in hematologic malignancies 
(HM), yet are heavily stigmatized in the era of the opioid epidemic. Stigma and 
negative attitudes towards opioids may contribute to poorly managed cancer pain. 
We aimed to understand patient attitudes towards opioids for HM pain management, 
particularly among historically marginalized populations.
METHODS: We interviewed a convenience sample of 20 adult patients with HM during 
outpatient visits at an urban academic medical center. Semi-structured 
interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed, and qualitatively analyzed using 
the framework method.
RESULTS: Among 20 participants, 12 were female and half were Black. Median age 
was 62 (interquartile range = 54-68). HM diagnoses included multiple myeloma (n 
= 10), leukemia (n = 5), lymphoma (n = 4), and myelofibrosis (n = 1). Eight 
themes emerged from interviews that seemed to influence HM-related pain 
self-management, including (1) fear of opioid-related harms, (2) opioid side 
effects and harms to health, (3) fatalism and stoicism, (4) perceived value of 
opioids for HM-related pain, (5) low perceived susceptibility to opioid-related 
harms and externalizing blame, (6) preferences for non-opioid pain management 
approaches, (7) trust in providers and opioid accessibility, and (8) external 
sources of pain management support and information.
CONCLUSIONS: This qualitative study demonstrates that fears and stigmatized 
views of opioids can conflict with marginalized patients' needs to manage 
debilitating HM-related pain. Negative attitudes towards opioids were shaped by 
the opioid epidemic and reduced willingness to seek out or use analgesics.
IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: These findings help expose patient-level 
barriers to optimal HM pain management, revealing attitudes, and knowledge to be 
targeted by future pain management interventions in HM.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11764-023-01370-9
PMID: 37022642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2022 Dec 25;51(6):765-774. doi: 
10.3724/zdxbyxb-2022-0284.

Guidance on the management of adverse reactions induced by poly(ADP-ribose) 
polymerase inhibitors.

[Article in English]

Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Zhejiang Medical Association, Society of 
Urology of Zhejiang Medical Association, Committee of Breast Cancer of Zhejiang 
Anticancer Association, Committee of Clinical Pharmacy on Oncology of Zhejiang 
Anticancer Association (preparation), Committee of Urology of Zhejiang Society 
for Mathematical Medicine.

The common adverse reactions caused by poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 
inhibitors include hematological toxicity, gastrointestinal toxicity and 
fatigue. The main prevention and treatment of hematological toxicity include: 
regular blood tests, referral to hematology department when routine treatment is 
ineffective, and being alert of myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukemia. 
The key points to deal with gastrointestinal toxicity include: taking medicine 
at the right time, light diet, appropriate amount of drinking water, timely 
symptomatic treatment, prevention of expected nausea and vomiting, and so on. 
For fatigue, full assessment should be completed before treatment because the 
causes of fatigue are various; the management includes massage therapy, 
psychosocial interventions and drugs such as methylphenidate and Panax 
quinquefolius according to the severity. In addition, niraparib and fluzoparib 
can cause hypertension, hypertensive crisis and palpitation. Blood pressure and 
heart rate monitoring, timely symptomatic treatment, and multidisciplinary 
consultation should be taken if necessary. When cough and dyspnea occur, high 
resolution CT and bronchoscopy should be performed to exclude pneumonia. If 
necessary, PARP inhibitors should be stopped, and glucocorticoid and 
antimicrobial therapy should be given. Finally, more attention should be paid to 
drug interaction management, patient self-management and regular monitoring to 
minimize the risk and harm of adverse reactions of PARP inhibitors.

The common adverse reactions caused by poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 
inhibitors include hematological toxicity, gastrointestinal toxicity and 
fatigue. The main prevention and treatment of hematological toxicity include: 
regular blood tests, referral to hematology department when routine treatment is 
ineffective, and being alert of myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukemia. 
The key points to deal with gastrointestinal toxicity include: taking medicine 
at the right time, light diet, appropriate amount of drinking water, timely 
symptomatic treatment, prevention of expected nausea and vomiting, and so on. 
For fatigue, full assessment should be completed before treatment because the 
causes of fatigue are various; the management includes massage therapy, 
psychosocial interventions and drugs such as methylphenidate and Panax 
quinquefolius according to the severity. In addition, niraparib and fluzoparib 
can cause hypertension, hypertensive crisis and palpitation. Blood pressure and 
heart rate monitoring, timely symptomatic treatment, and multidisciplinary 
consultation should be taken if necessary. When cough and dyspnea occur, high 
resolution CT and bronchoscopy should be performed to exclude pneumonia. If 
necessary, PARP inhibitors should be stopped, and glucocorticoid and 
antimicrobial therapy should be given. Finally, more attention should be paid to 
drug interaction management, patient self-management and regular monitoring to 
minimize the risk and harm of adverse reactions of PARP inhibitors.

DOI: 10.3724/zdxbyxb-2022-0284
PMCID: PMC10262009
PMID: 36915979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: 所有作者均声明不存在利益冲突


46. BMC Health Serv Res. 2023 Mar 8;23(1):228. doi: 10.1186/s12913-023-09153-9.

Effectiveness of digital care platform CMyLife for patients with chronic myeloid 
leukemia: results of a patient-preference trial.

Verweij L(1), Ector GICG(2), Smit Y(2), van Vlijmen B(3), van der Reijden BA(4), 
Hermens RPMG(#)(5), Blijlevens NMA(#)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboud 
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, Netherlands. lynn.verweij@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Hematology, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboud 
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life 
Sciences, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(5)Department of IQ Healthcare, Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboud 
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Two most important factors determining treatment success in chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML) are adequate medication compliance and molecular 
monitoring albeit still being suboptimal. The CMyLife platform is an eHealth 
innovation, co-created with and for CML patients, aiming to improve their care, 
leading to an increased quality of life and the opportunity of hospital-free 
care.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the effectiveness of CMyLife in terms of information 
provision, patient empowerment, medication compliance, molecular monitoring, and 
quality of life.
METHODS: Effectiveness of CMyLife was explored using a patient-preference trial. 
Upon completion of the baseline questionnaire, participants actively used 
(intervention group) or did not actively use (questionnaire group) the CMyLife 
platform for at least 6 months, after which they completed the post-intervention 
questionnaire. Scores between the intervention group and the questionnaire group 
were compared with regard to the within-subject change between baseline and 
post-measurement using Generalized Estimating Equation models.
RESULTS: At baseline, 33 patients were enrolled in the questionnaire group and 
75 in the intervention group. Online health information knowledge improved 
significantly when actively using CMyLife and patients felt more empowered. No 
significant improvements were found regarding medication compliance and 
molecular monitoring, which were already outstanding. Self-reported 
effectiveness showed that patients experienced that using CMyLife improved their 
medication compliance and helped them to oversee their molecular monitoring. 
Patients using CMyLife reported more symptoms but were better able to manage 
these.
CONCLUSIONS: Since hospital-free care has shown to be feasible in time of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, eHealth-based innovations such as CMyLife could be a solution 
to maintain the quality of care and make current oncological health care 
services more sustainable.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04595955 , 22/10/2020.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-023-09153-9
PMCID: PMC9994406
PMID: 36890512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


47. Cancer. 2023 Apr 1;129(7):1075-1084. doi: 10.1002/cncr.34645. Epub 2023 Jan 18.

Psychological mobile app for patients with acute myeloid leukemia: A pilot 
randomized clinical trial.

El-Jawahri A(1)(2), Luskin MR(2)(3), Greer JA(1)(2), Traeger L(1)(2), Lavoie 
M(1), Vaughn DM(1), Andrews S(3), Yang D(1), Boateng KY(1), Newcomb RA(1)(2), 
Ufere NN(2)(4), Fathi AT(1)(2), Hobbs G(1)(2), Brunner A(1)(2), Abel GA(2)(3), 
Stone RM(2)(3), DeAngelo DJ(2)(3), Wadleigh M(2)(3), Temel JS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Divsion of Hematology Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) experience a substantial 
decline in quality of life (QoL) and mood during their hospitalization for 
intensive chemotherapy, yet few interventions have been developed to enhance 
patient-reported outcomes during treatment.
METHODS: We conducted a pilot randomized trial (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier 
NCT03372291) of DREAMLAND, a psychological mobile application for patients with 
a new diagnosis of AML who are receiving intensive chemotherapy. Patients were 
randomly assigned to DREAMLAND or usual care. DREAMLAND included four required 
modules focused on: (1) supportive psychotherapy to help patients deal with the 
initial shock of diagnosis, (2) psychoeducation to manage illness expectations, 
(3) psychosocial skill-building to promote effective coping, and (4) self-care. 
The primary end point was feasibility, which was defined as ≥60% of eligible 
patients enrolling and 60% of those enrolled completing ≥60% of the required 
modules. We assessed patient QoL (the Functional Assessment of Cancer 
Therapy-Leukemia), psychological distress (the Hospital Anxiety and Depression 
Scale and the Patient Health Questionnaire-9), symptom burden (the Edmonton 
Symptom Assessment Scale), and self-efficacy (the Cancer Self-Efficacy Scale) at 
baseline and at day 20 after postchemotherapy.
RESULTS: We enrolled 60 of 90 eligible patients (66.7%), and 62.1% completed 
≥75% of the intervention modules. At day 20 after chemotherapy, patients who 
were randomized to DREAMLAND reported improved QoL scores (132.06 vs. 110.72; 
p =.001), lower anxiety symptoms (3.54 vs. 5.64; p = .010) and depression 
symptoms (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale: 4.76 vs. 6.29; p = .121; 
Patient Health Questionnaire-9: 4.62 vs. 8.35; p < .001), and improved symptom 
burden (24.89 vs. 40.60; p = .007) and self-efficacy (151.84 vs. 135.43; 
p = .004) compared with the usual care group.
CONCLUSIONS: A psychological mobile application for patients with newly 
diagnosed AML is feasible to integrate during hospitalization for intensive 
chemotherapy and may improve QoL, mood, symptom burden, and self-efficacy.

© 2023 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.34645
PMID: 36655338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Support Care Cancer. 2022 Dec 19;31(1):61. doi: 10.1007/s00520-022-07530-4.

Therapeutic education and physical activity are feasible and safe in hematologic 
cancer patients referred to chemotherapy: results of a randomized controlled 
trial.

Accogli MA(1), Denti M(1), Costi S(2)(3), Fugazzaro S(1).

Author information:
(1)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Unit, Azienda Unità Sanitaria 
Locale-IRCCS Di Reggio Emilia, Viale Risorgimento N°80, 42123, Reggio Emilia, 
Italy.
(2)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Unit, Azienda Unità Sanitaria 
Locale-IRCCS Di Reggio Emilia, Viale Risorgimento N°80, 42123, Reggio Emilia, 
Italy. stefania.costi@unimore.it.
(3)Department of Surgery, Medicine, Dentistry and Morphological Sciences, 
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via del Pozzo N°74, 41100, Modena, 
Italy. stefania.costi@unimore.it.

PURPOSE: Although over 60% of patients with hematologic cancer report 
distressing fatigue, they often do not receive recommendations on fatigue 
management strategies. The aim of this pilot study was to estimate the 
feasibility of therapeutic education and physical activity (TEPA) by measuring 
the patients' adherence to this multidimensional intervention. The secondary aim 
was to estimate the impact of TEPA on clinical outcomes.
METHODS: Patients with hematologic cancer participated in this single-center, 
open-label, randomized controlled trial. The control group (CG) received two 
educational group sessions on fatigue and physical activity. The experimental 
group (EG) received the two educational sessions plus six weekly individual 
sessions aimed at implementing a personalized physical 
exercise program. Follow-ups were at 1, 3, and 7 months.
RESULTS: Forty-six patients referred to chemotherapy were included, 
corresponding to 54% of recruitment rate. Adherence reached 90% in the EG and 
68% in the CG. Most patients (65% in EG and 64% in CG) attended a minimum of 80% 
of the planned sessions. Overall retention rate was 87% (85% in EG and 91% in 
CG). No adverse events were registered. No between-group differences were 
detected in fatigue (FACIT-F), psychological distress (NCCN Distress 
Thermometer), QoL (EORTC QLQ-C30), or functional exercise capacity (TUG test and 
6MWT). Adherence to an active lifestyle, measured by a semi-structured 
interview, increased from 56.5 to 84% in the EG at 7 months (p = 0.02), whereas 
it decreased slightly in the CG (from 47.8 to 42.9%).
CONCLUSION: Multidimensional rehabilitation interventions are feasible and safe 
in this population, and larger trials should focus on the efficacy of such 
approaches on clinically relevant outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03403075.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-022-07530-4
PMCID: PMC9763142
PMID: 36534365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose. They have no conflict of interest. The 
GRADE Onlus Foundation had no role in the definition of the study design, in the 
collection, analysis, or interpretation of the data, in the writing of the 
report, or in the decision to submit the article for publication.


49. Patient Prefer Adherence. 2022 Aug 5;16:1983-1997. doi: 10.2147/PPA.S369628. 
eCollection 2022.

Healthcare Inequities Experienced by Patients with Cancer: A Qualitative Study 
in Medellín, Colombia.

Higuita-Gutiérrez LF(1)(2), Estrada-Mesa DA(1), Cardona-Arias JA(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Cooperativa de Colombia, Medellín, Colombia.
(2)School of Microbiology, Universidad de Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to understand the lived experiences of patients with 
cancer that facing inequities in oncological care in the city of Medellín.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A qualitative study was conducted based on the theoretical 
and methodological elements of the grounded theory, specifically the description 
and conceptual ordering of Corbin and Strauss. Sixteen patients with cancer, who 
belonged to low (n=5), middle (n=4) and high (n=7) social classes, were included 
by theoretical sampling with category saturation. Data were collected using 
semi-structured interviews and analyzed in a category system based on the three 
social classes.
RESULTS: The patients were aged between 23 and 71 years old, and they were 
diagnosed with different types of cancer such as breast, cervical, prostate, 
stomach, leukemia and lymphoma. Patients' experiences showed that diagnosis, 
specialized care, treatment and hospital discharge were different based on their 
social class.
CONCLUSION: Patients' lived experiences associated with cancer reflect complex 
social situations, in which social determinants affect the level of citizens' 
empowerment and self-management against the risks of get disease and die. Being 
part of low and middle social classes meant being subjected to a dehumanized, 
cold, impersonal and discontinuous treatment, in which healthcare was focused on 
the disease instead of individuals' preferences and values. In contrast, 
patients belonging to the high class had the resources necessary to face risks, 
which ensured access to more humanized and individualized healthcare.

© 2022 Higuita-Gutiérrez et al.

DOI: 10.2147/PPA.S369628
PMCID: PMC9362511
PMID: 35958886

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research and publication of this article.


50. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2023 Jul;29(5):1083-1093. doi: 10.1177/10781552221090904. 
Epub 2022 Apr 11.

An investigation of the use of app technology to support clinical management of 
patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML).

Khadam S(1), Chu T(2), Deekes N(3), FitzGerald D(3), Preston A(4), Duncan 
N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(2)University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(3)Patient representative.
(4)University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The availability of healthcare apps to support patient 
self-management of various medical conditions, including cancer, has increased 
considerably in the past decade. However, there are limited published data on 
the role of apps in the management of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). The 
primary aim of this study was to investigate the current and future role of apps 
as a means of supporting patients with CML.
METHODS: A 31-item questionnaire was developed and distributed to patients via 
three on-line CML support groups.
RESULTS: Responses were received from 286 patients. There was an approximate 2:1 
female: male split and the majority (54%, n = 155) resided in the United 
Kingdom. 91% (n = 260) of respondents were currently receiving drug treatment 
for their CML. 23.4% (n = 67) of respondents were aware that apps were available 
to support their CML management and 11.5% (n = 33) had experience of using such 
an app. 94.1% (n = 238) of those who had not used a patient support app in the 
past stated that they would consider using an app in the future to help manage 
their disease. App awareness was significantly higher amongst male patients 
(30.3% vs. 19.9%). Likelihood of being a current or previous app user was higher 
amongst younger patients (16.3% for <55 years old vs. 5.6% for ≥55 years old) 
whilst younger patients and those with a more recent diagnosis of CML were both 
more likely to be interested in using an app in the future. When asked about 
potential app functionality, a drug interaction checker was the feature of 
greatest interest to respondents.
CONCLUSIONS: We have identified both a lack of awareness of and a low uptake of 
patient support apps amongst CML patients. Importantly, we have demonstrated a 
clear interest in CML-specific apps amongst this population. Based on the 
functionality that study participants were most interested in, we will work with 
health care professionals, app developers and patients to develop a new app to 
deliver holistic support to CML patients.

DOI: 10.1177/10781552221090904
PMCID: PMC10302356
PMID: 35404173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


51. Value Health. 2022 Jun;25(6):931-936. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.01.023. Epub 2022 
Mar 23.

Electronic Patient Symptom Management Program to Support Patients Receiving 
Cancer Treatment at Home During the COVID-19 Pandemic.

Wujcik D(1), Dudley WN(2), Dudley M(2), Gupta V(3), Brant J(4).

Author information:
(1)Carevive Systems, Inc, Franklin, TN, USA. Electronic address: 
debbie@carevive.com.
(2)Piedmont Research Strategies, Inc, Greensboro, NC, USA.
(3)Carevive Systems, Inc, Princeton, NJ, USA.
(4)Billings Clinic Cancer Center, Billings, MT, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Remote patient monitoring became critical for patients receiving 
cancer treatment during the COVID-19 pandemic. We sought to test feasibility of 
an electronic patient symptom management program implemented during a pandemic. 
We collected and analyzed the real-world data to inform practice quality 
improvement and understand the patient experience.
METHODS: Eligible patients had breast, lung, or ovarian cancers, multiple 
myeloma, or acute myeloid leukemia and 12 weeks of planned chemotherapy. 
Patients were notified that a symptom survey with common symptoms derived from 
the National Cancer Institute's Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common 
Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events was available to complete using a smart 
phone, tablet, or computer. Patients recorded their symptoms and results were 
sent to the provider. Patients received care guidelines for mild/moderate 
severity symptoms and a phone call from the provider for severe reports.
RESULTS: A total of 282 patients generated > 119 088 data points. Patients 
completed 2860 of 3248 assigned surveys (88%), and 152 of 282 patients (54%) had 
symptom reports that generated an immediate notification to the provider. 
Longitudinal data were analyzed to determine whether previous reports predicted 
a notification alert and whether symptoms resolved after the alert was 
addressed.
CONCLUSIONS: An electronic patient symptom management program was implemented in 
the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Enrollment of 282 patients and a high survey 
completion (88%) demonstrated feasibility/acceptance. Patients reported symptoms 
at severe levels of 54% of the time and received self-management instructions 
and provider phone calls that resolved or decreased the severity of the symptom. 
A standard approach and validated instrument provide opportunities for improving 
and benchmarking outcomes.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2022.01.023
PMCID: PMC8941492
PMID: 35339378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. World J Clin Cases. 2022 Feb 26;10(6):1826-1833. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v10.i6.1826.

Empathetic nursing with mindful cognitive therapy for fatigue, depression, and 
negative emotions in leukemia patients undergoing long-term chemotherapy.

Lu YY(1), Lu XM(1), Shao CY(2), Wang CC(1), Xu TT(1), Zhang BL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Affiliated Haian Hospital of Nantong 
University, Haian 226600, Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Affiliated Haian Hospital of Nantong 
University, Haian 226600, Jiangsu Province, China. scyyan12@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Leukemia is a broad term for blood cell cancer. Leukemia is divided 
into acute or chronic, depending on cell differentiation. Leukemia patients are 
prone to adverse reactions during chemotherapy, such as anxiety, depression, and 
even suicide, affecting prognosis. As a nursing model developed by three 
well-known cognitive psychologists, empathetic nursing with mindfulness 
cognitive therapy (ENMCT) can effectively reduce anxiety and depression and 
improve the quality of life in patients with chronic disease.
AIM: To explore the effect of ENMCT on cancer-induced fatigue, hope level, and 
negative emotions in patients with long-term leukemia chemotherapy.
METHODS: A total of 103 patients with long-term leukemia chemotherapy diagnosed 
and treated in our hospital from July 2017 to October 2019 were enrolled and 
randomly assigned to observation and control groups using the random number 
table approach. Fifty-one patients in the control group received routine 
nursing, while 52 patients in the observation group received empathic nursing 
with mindfulness cognitive therapy. After three months of nursing care, 
cancer-induced fatigue was measured with the Piper Fatigue Scale (PFS), hope 
level with the Herth Hope Index (HHI), and negative emotion with the Hamilton 
Anxiety Scale (HAMA)/Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD). Self-management (Chinese 
Strategies Used by People to Promote Health) was also recorded.
RESULTS: The observation group's total scores in behavior, cognition, emotion, 
feeling, and PFS were lower than the control group after the intervention (P < 
0.05). Keeping close contact with others, the attitude of taking positive 
actions, the attitude toward reality and future, and the total HHI score were 
higher in the observation group than the control group (P < 0.05). The 
observation group's HAMA and HAMD scores were lower than the control group (P < 
0.05). The observation group's positive attitude, self-decision, and self-relief 
scores were greater than the control group (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Empathetic nursing with cognitive mindfulness therapy is beneficial 
in improving cancer-related fatigue, negative emotions, expectation level, and 
self-management ability in patients with long-term leukemia chemotherapy.

©The Author(s) 2022. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.12998/wjcc.v10.i6.1826
PMCID: PMC8891779
PMID: 35317141

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest associated with this article.


53. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2023 Mar;29(2):358-369. doi: 10.1177/10781552211073576. 
Epub 2022 Jan 20.

Interpersonal communication-, education- and counselling-based interventions to 
support adherence to oral anticancer therapy: a systematic review.

Elston Lafata J(1), Nguyen B(2), Staresinic C(1), Johnson M(1), Gratie D(3), 
Muluneh B(1).

Author information:
(1)15521University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
(2)21668University of Maryland Medical Center.
(3)AESARA, Inc.

Background. Many factors contribute to oral anti-cancer therapy adherence, 
including counselling and educational support. Objective. We systematically 
review the literature evaluating the effectiveness of interpersonal 
communication-, counselling- and education-based interventions on patient 
adherence to oral anticancer therapy. Methods. Using search terms pertaining to 
medication adherence, oral anticancer therapy, and communication, education, and 
counselling, we conducted a systematic search for full-text, original research 
articles prior to 3/13/20. Two reviewers independently reviewed each paper for 
inclusion and charted study information. Results. Twenty-four articles were 
included. All considered the use of oral anticancer therapy between two defined 
time points. Four studies also considered the length of time a patient persisted 
on therapy. Half (n = 12) of the studies reported a statistically significant 
relationship between the intervention and medication adherence, with no 
consistent pattern among intervention structure/content and effectiveness. 
Programmes offering in-person counselling and those targeting patients with 
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), tended to report positive findings. Most studies 
faced substantial risk of bias, and only two reported using a behavioural theory 
to guide interventional content. Conclusions. Findings highlight the infancy of 
evidence base and need for rigorous and large-scale studies grounded in 
established behavioural theories to advance patient-targeted educational and 
counselling practices supporting adherence to oral anti-cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1177/10781552211073576
PMID: 35048768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Can Oncol Nurs J. 2021 Nov 1;31(4):470-475. doi: 10.5737/23688076314470475. 
eCollection 2021 Fall.

Synthesis of self-management strategies used by young adults who have undergone 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: A narrative review.

Vinette B(1), Mrad H(2), El-Akhras A(2), Bilodeau K(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, Université de Montréal, Centre for Innovation in Nursing 
Education (CIFI).
(2)Faculty of Nursing, Université de Montréal.
(3)Faculty of Nursing, Université de Montréal, Centre for Innovation in Nursing 
Education (CIFI), Centre de recherche de l'Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont.

Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is frequently used to treat young adults 
with hematologic cancer. The treatment can cause a range of side effects that 
require patients to self-manage their symptoms. However, there do not seem to be 
any studies that review the literature on self-management strategies used by 
this group. The purpose of this paper is to summarize the self-management 
strategies used by young adults (18-39 years old) who have received a 
hematopoietic stem cell transplant for leukemia or lymphoma. A narrative review 
conducted in the CINAHL, MEDLINE and PsycINFO databases returned 11 papers. An 
analysis of these data shows that young adults use self-management strategies, 
including managing their emotions, turning to spiritual beliefs, seeking support 
from others and changing their behaviours. The results stress the importance of 
nursing care in supporting these self-management strategies used by young adults 
who have undergone hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

© 2021 Canadian Association of Nurses in Oncology (CANO).

DOI: 10.5737/23688076314470475
PMCID: PMC8565441
PMID: 34786465


55. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2021 Oct 21;18(21):11045. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph182111045.

Assessment of Oral Chemotherapy Nonadherence in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia 
Patients Using Brief Measures in Community Cancer Clinics: A Pilot Study.

Davis TC(1), Arnold CL(1), Mills G(1), Lesser GJ(2), Brown WM(3), Schulz R(4), 
Weaver KE(5), Pawloski PA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Louisiana State University Health-Shreveport, 
Shreveport, LA 71130, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27101, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27101, USA.
(4)College of Pharmacy, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC 29208, USA.
(5)Department of Social Sciences and Health Policy, Wake Forest School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27101, USA.
(6)Metro-Minnesota Community Oncology Research Consortium, St. Louis Park, MN 
55416, USA.

The purpose of this pilot study was to assess Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) 
patients' adherence to, beliefs about, and barriers to oral anticancer agents 
(OAC) using brief self-report measures in community-based cancer clinics. 
Patients completed a structured interview including a health literacy 
assessment, a Brief Medication Questionnaire, two single-item self-report 
adherence questions, and the Medications Adherence Reasons Scale. Of the 86 
participants, 88.4% were white; 55.8% male; mean age, 58.7 years; and 22.1% had 
limited health literacy. Nonadherence (missing at least one dose in the last 
week) was reported by 18.6% of participants and associated (p < 0.003) with 
less-than-excellent perceived ability to take CML medications (16.3%). Black 
participants reported more difficulty taking CML medications than white 
participants (28.6% vs. 8.3%, p = 0.053). Among all participants, 43.0% reported 
their CML medicine was ineffective and 24.4% that taking CML pills was somewhat 
to very hard. The most common reasons for missing a dose were simply missed it 
(24.4%) and side effects (18.6%). Most patients perceived their ability to take 
CML medication was good to excellent, yet nearly one in five reported missing at 
least one dose in the last week. Brief, no-cost self-report assessments to 
screen CML patients' OAC adherence, barriers, and beliefs could facilitate 
counseling in busy community cancer clinics.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph182111045
PMCID: PMC8582838
PMID: 34769563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


56. Front Oncol. 2021 Oct 18;11:701604. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.701604. eCollection 
2021.

Co-Occurrence of Myeloid and Lymphoid Neoplasms: Clinical Characterization and 
Impact on Outcome. A Single-Center Cohort Study.

Bucelli C(1), Fattizzo B(1)(2), Cattaneo D(1)(2), Giannotta JA(1), Barbullushi 
K(2), Pasquale R(2), Barozzi E(2), Barbanti MC(2), Pettine L(1), Rossi FG(1), 
Reda G(1), Cassin R(1), Barcellini W(1), Baldini L(1), Iurlo A(1).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Oncology and Onco-Hematology, University of Milan, Milan, 
Italy.

The co-occurrence of myeloid neoplasms and lymphoproliferative diseases (LPDs) 
has been epidemiologically described, particularly in myeloproliferative 
neoplasms (MPNs). However, the clinical features of these patients are poorly 
known. In this study, we evaluated a single-center cohort of 44 patients with a 
diagnosis of myeloid and LPD focusing on clinical features, therapy requirement, 
and outcome. The two diagnoses were concomitant in 32% of patients, while 
myeloid disease preceded LPD in 52% of cases (after a median of 37 months, 
6-318), and LPD preceded myeloid neoplasm in 16% (after a median of 41 months, 
5-242). The most prevalent LPD was non-Hodgkin lymphoma (50%), particularly 
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (54.5%), followed by chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
(27%), plasma cell dyscrasias (18.2%), and rarer associations such as Hodgkin 
lymphoma and Erdheim-Chester disease. Overall, 80% of BCR-ABL1-negative MPN 
patients required a myeloid-specific treatment and LPD received therapy in 45.5% 
of cases. Seven subjects experienced vascular events, 13 a grade >/= 3 
infectious episode (9 pneumonias, 3 urinary tract infection, and 1 sepsis), and 
9 developed a solid tumor. Finally, nine patients died due to solid tumor 
(four), leukemic progression (two), infectious complications (two), and brain 
bleeding (one). Longer survival was observed in younger patients (p = 0.001), 
with better performance status (p = 0.02) and in the presence of driver 
mutations (p = 0.003). Contrarily, a worse survival was significantly associated 
with the occurrence of infections (p < 0.0001). These data suggest that in 
subjects with co-occurrence of myeloid and lymphoid neoplasms, high medical 
surveillance for infectious complications is needed, along with patient 
education, since they may negatively impact outcome.

Copyright © 2021 Bucelli, Fattizzo, Cattaneo, Giannotta, Barbullushi, Pasquale, 
Barozzi, Barbanti, Pettine, Rossi, Reda, Cassin, Barcellini, Baldini and Iurlo.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.701604
PMCID: PMC8558405
PMID: 34733777

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


57. JCO Precis Oncol. 2021 Oct 6;5:PO.21.00027. doi: 10.1200/PO.21.00027. 
eCollection 2021.

Adopting Consensus Terms for Testing in Precision Medicine.

Martin NA(1), Tepper JE(2), Giri VN(3), Stinchcombe TE(4), Cheng HH(5)(6)(7), 
Javle MM(8), Konnick EQ(7)(9).

Author information:
(1)LUNGevity Foundation, Bethesda, MD.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, UNC/Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
UNC School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC.
(3)Cancer Risk Assessment and Clinical Cancer Genetics, Departments of Medical 
Oncology, Cancer Biology, and Urology, Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas 
Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA.
(4)Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC.
(5)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA.
(7)Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, Seattle, WA.
(8)Department of Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.
(9)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA.

Despite the well-understood benefits of biomarker and genetic testing in 
precision medicine, uptake remains low, particularly for patients with low 
socioeconomic status and minority ethnic backgrounds. Patients report having 
limited familiarity with testing terminology and may not be able to accurately 
explain testing's role in treatment decisions. Patient confusion and lack of 
understanding is exacerbated by a multiplicity of overlapping terms used in 
communicating about testing. A LUNGevity Foundation-led working group composed 
of five professional societies, 23 patient advocacy groups, and 19 industry 
members assessed and recommended specific terms for communicating with patients 
on testing for tumor characteristics and germline mutations.
METHODS: Members completed a precision oncology testing framework analysis 
(biomarkers, germline variants, testing modalities, biospecimen, and commonly 
used testing terms) for nine solid tumors and blood cancers. The evaluation was 
segmented into terms that distinguish between somatic and germline testing. 
Additional data were captured in a comprehensive survey (1,650 respondents) led 
by FORCE (Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered) on patient preferences on 
germline testing terms.
RESULTS: Thirty-three terms were noted in patient education related to 
biomarker, genetic, and genomic testing. Biomarker testing was selected as the 
preferred term for testing for somatic (acquired) alterations and other 
biomarkers. Genetic testing for an inherited mutation and genetic testing for 
inherited cancer risk were selected as the preferred terms for testing for 
germline variants.
CONCLUSION: Democratizing comprehension about precision oncology testing through 
intentional use of plain language and common umbrella terminology by oncology 
health care providers and others in the oncology ecosystem may help improve 
understanding and communication, and facilitate shared decision making about the 
role of appropriate testing in treatment decisions and other aspects of oncology 
care.

© 2021 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/PO.21.00027
PMCID: PMC8509918
PMID: 34651094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Eric Q. Konnick Honoraria: Ventana Medical 
Systems, Roche, Clinical Care Options, Medscape, National Comprehensive Cancer 
Network Consulting or Advisory Role: River West Meeting Associates Travel, 
Accommodations, Expenses: Ventana Medical Systems, Roche, Clinical Care Options 
LLC, Medscape, National Comprehensive Cancer Network, River West Meeting 
Associates No other potential conflicts of interest were reported. Eric Q. 
Konnick Honoraria: Ventana Medical Systems, Roche, Clinical Care Options, 
Medscape, National Comprehensive Cancer Network Consulting or Advisory Role: 
River West Meeting Associates Travel, Accommodations, Expenses: Ventana Medical 
Systems, Roche, Clinical Care Options LLC, Medscape, National Comprehensive 
Cancer Network, River West Meeting Associates No other potential conflicts of 
interest were reported.


58. J Patient Exp. 2021 Aug 25;8:23743735211034967. doi: 10.1177/23743735211034967. 
eCollection 2021.

Patient-Reported Communication With Their Health Care Team About New Treatment 
Options for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia.

Kranzler EC(1), Olson JS(1), Nichols HM(2), Yuen EY(3)(4)(5)(6), McManus S(1), 
Buzaglo JS(7), Zaleta AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Support Community, Research and Training Institute, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(2)Cancer Support Community, Washington, DC, USA.
(3)Deakin University, Centre for Quality and Patient Safety Research, Institute 
for Health Transformation, Burwood, VIC, Australia.
(4)Monash Health, Centre for Quality and Patient Safety Research, Monash Health 
Partnership, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(5)La Trobe University, School of Psychology and Public Health, Bundoora, VIC, 
Australia.
(6)Austin Health, Olivia Newton-John Cancer, Research and Wellness Centre, 
Psycho-Oncology Research Unit, Heidelberg, VIC, Australia.
(7)ConcertAI, Boston, MA, USA.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) often requires consideration of multiple 
treatment options. Shared decision-making (SDM) is important, given the 
availability of increasingly novel therapies; however, patient-provider 
treatment conversations vary. We examined relationships between patient-provider 
discussions of new CLL treatment options and sociodemographic, clinical, and 
patient-provider communication variables among 187 CLL patients enrolled in 
Cancer Support Community's Cancer Experience Registry. Factors significantly 
associated with self-reports of whether patients' providers discussed new CLL 
treatment options with them were examined using χ2 tests, t tests, and 
hierarchical logistic regression. Fifty-eight percent of patients reported 
discussing new treatment options with their doctor. Patients with higher 
education were 3 times more likely to discuss new treatment options relative to 
those with lower education (OR = 3.06, P < .05). Patients who experienced a 
cancer recurrence were 7 times more likely to discuss new treatment options 
compared to those who had not (OR = 7.01, P < .05). Findings offer insights into 
the correlates of patient-provider discussions of new CLL treatment options. As 
novel therapies are incorporated into standards of care, opportunities exist for 
providers to improve patient care through enhanced SDM.

© The Author(s) 2021.

DOI: 10.1177/23743735211034967
PMCID: PMC8392805
PMID: 34458567

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article. Financial research support was 
granted to the CSC and not individual study authors. CSC retains full control of 
all primary data. CSC shares control over data analyses and reporting of results 
with AstraZeneca, one of several project funders. Potential conflicts of 
interest are as follows. Dr Kranzler: Astellas Pharma US, Inc, Janssen Oncology, 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Pharmacyclics, Inc, Takeda Oncology (institutional 
research support). Dr Buzaglo: Concerto HealthAI (employee). Dr Zaleta: Astellas 
Pharma US, Inc, Gilead Sciences, Inc, Novartis, Pfizer, Inc, SeaGen Inc. 
(institutional research support). Drs Olson, Nichols, Yuen, and Ms. McManus have 
no conflicts of interest to disclose.


59. J Geriatr Oncol. 2022 Mar;13(2):234-240. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2021.07.010. Epub 
2021 Aug 24.

Feasibility of implementing an exercise intervention in older adults with 
hematologic malignancy.

Rosko A(1), Huang Y(2), Jones D(2), Presley CJ(3), Jaggers J(4), Owens R(5), 
Naughton M(6), Krok-Schoen JL(7).

Author information:
(1)The Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, United 
States of America; Division of Hematology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, 
OH, United States of America. Electronic address: ashley.rosko@osumc.edu.
(2)Division of Hematology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United 
States of America.
(3)The Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, United 
States of America; Division of Medical Oncology, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, United States of America.
(4)College of Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United States 
of America.
(5)Rehabilitation Services, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United 
States of America.
(6)The Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, United 
States of America; Cancer Prevention and Control, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, OH, United States of America.
(7)The Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, United 
States of America; Division of Medical Dietetics and Health Sciences, School of 
Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Medicine, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, OH, United States of America.

Older adults with Hematologic Malignancy (HM) are vulnerable to functional 
decline secondary to disease and treatment. Interventions for physical 
deconditioning, in concert with routine hematology care are limited. The 
feasibility of accrual, retention, and demand for an exercise intervention among 
a high-risk HM population was piloted.
METHODS: Older adults with HM, on active treatment, with functional impairment 
were recruited prospectively to participate in a 6-month Otago Exercise 
Programme (OEP). Measures of motivation, self-efficacy, patient identified 
barriers to exercise, barriers to clinical trial enrollment, study satisfaction, 
and serious adverse events were captured.
RESULTS: 63 patients were approached, 18 declined trial enrollment, 45 
consented, 30 patients enrolled in the exercise program. The main barrier for 
trial enrollment was transportation/travel concerns (n = 15). Of the 45 
consented participants, 8 (12.7%) dropped out due to clinical deterioration, 5 
(7.9%) withdrew, and 2 (3.2%) were ineligible prior to exercise-intervention 
intiation. The median age was 75.5 years (range 62-83) with plasma cell 
dyscrasia (63%), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (20%) and leukemia (17%). Retention of the 
physical therapist (PT) led-OEP was 76.6% of patients (n = 23/30), and 
end-of-study retention was 66.7% (n = 20/30). Of the evaluable patients, 23/29 
completed the PE-led OEP yielding a completion rate of 79%. Participants were 
extremely motivated (72.4%) and strongly intended (89.7%) to engage in regular 
physical activity. Exercising when tired increased from a median score of 50 at 
Visit 1 to 70 at Visit 2, but dropped significantly to 45 at Visit 3 
(p < 0.001). Participants reported significantly lower self-efficacy to exercise 
over the next 6 months from Visit 1 to Visit 3 (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Older patients with HM had higher completion of in-person, PT-led 
exercise compared to at-home, independent exercise. Older adults were motivated 
and found the program acceptable, yet the ability to sustain a structured 
exercise program was challenging due to changes in health status. 
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02791737.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2021.07.010
PMCID: PMC8863976
PMID: 34446377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2021 Jul;48(7):921-926.

Use of Ibrutinib in 10 Patients with Treatment-Naïve or Relapsed/Refractory 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma in Real-World Clinical 
Practice -A Report from a Single Medical Institution.

Sekiguchi Y(1), Iizuka H, Takizawa H, Mitsumori T, Tomita S, Izumi H, Okubo M, 
Miyake K, Osawa T, Sawada T, Yoshikawa S, Noguchi M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Hematology, Juntendo University Urayasu Hospital.

In Japan, ibrutinib has been approved as both a front-line and later-line 
treatment for chronic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma(CLL/SLL). However, 
little is known about the actual outcomes and adverse events(AEs)associated with 
the use of ibrutinib in Japanese patients.
OBJECTIVE: The outcomes and AEs of patients treated with ibrutinib in a 
real-world setting were investigated.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study of all patients with CLL/SLL who were 
treated with ibrutinib at a single institution was conducted.
RESULT: In total, 10 patients, including 5 treatment-naïve patients(50%), were 
enrolled. The median follow-up period was 9.8 months(range, 0.2-21.6 months), 
and the estimated overall response rate (ORR: complete remission plus partial 
remission)was 60%. The median overall survival and progression-free survival 
outcomes were not reached. During the follow-up period, 4 patients(40%)had at 
least one AE and 1 patient(10%)had at least one grade≥3 AE. Ibrutinib was 
discontinued in 4 patients(40%)because of AEs in 2 patients(20%), the 
progression of CLL in 1 patient(10%), and financial reasons in 1 patient(10%). 
Richter's transformation did not occur in any of the cases.
CONCLUSION: The ORR was lower(60%)than that observed in clinical trials. The 
frequency and severity of AEs were both relatively low, although the 
discontinuation rate was high(40%). Patient education and medication adherence 
were considered important.

PMID: 34267029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Patient Educ Couns. 2022 Mar;105(3):686-694. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2021.06.025. 
Epub 2021 Jun 27.

Filling the gaps of patient information needs and information perception in 
chronic myeloid leukemia with the patient-physician co-produced web-based 
platform CMyLife.

Ector GI(1), Verweij L(2), Hermens RP(3), Blijlevens NM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: Genevieve.ector@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Hematology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of IQ Healthcare, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: For patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, a web-based platform 
CMyLife was developed. Its aim is to enhance patient empowerment, by adequate 
information provision, among others. Before evaluating its effect, information 
provision and needs in current care were assessed.
OBJECTIVE: To assess patients' evaluation of received information and 
information needs before CMyLife utilization and whether this information source 
is used correspondingly. Additionally, we explored predicting patient factors in 
information perception.
PATIENT INVOLVEMENT: CMyLife platform was developed with active patient 
participation.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional survey among 203 CML patients before 
launch of the CMyLife platform, using validated questionnaires on information 
provision and predictive factors. We focused on website utilization during the 
first 3 years, using Google Analytics. Regression analyses were performed to 
determine influence of patient factors on information perception.
RESULTS: Global perceived information provision was scored 42.8 (0-100). 
Information on other services such as rehabilitation and psychological support, 
and effects of treatment on sexuality showed room for improvement. One out of 3 
knew where to find useful health information online. But more information was 
desired by 36% of them. Age ≥65 years, time since diagnosis and low education 
were positively associated with this need. Pages on medication and side effects 
were visited the most.
DISCUSSION: To fill the gap in perceived provision and needs, information should 
be adjusted more to the individual in content, manner and timing. Age, time 
since diagnosis, and educational level are of influence in perceived 
information, and specific needs within these groups should be further explored.
PRACTICAL VALUE: CMyLife provides reliable and up-to-date information for low 
eHealth literacy skilled patients concerning multiple topics indicated by 
patients.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2021.06.025
PMID: 34226069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Ann Behav Med. 2022 Feb 11;56(2):137-145. doi: 10.1093/abm/kaab035.

Fatigue Perpetuating Factors as Mediators of Change in a Cognitive Behavioral 
Intervention for Targeted Therapy-Related Fatigue in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia: A 
Pilot Study.

Hyland KA(1)(2), Nelson AM(3), Eisel SL(1), Hoogland AI(1), Ibarz-Pinilla J(4), 
Sweet K(4), Jacobsen PB(5), Knoop H(6), Jim HSL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Outcomes and Behavior, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, 
USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School/Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Malignant Hematology, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA.
(5)Healthcare Delivery Research Program, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, 
MD, USA.
(6)Department of Medical Psychology, Amsterdam University Medical Centers, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive behavioral therapy for targeted-therapy related fatigue 
(CBT-TTF) has demonstrated preliminary efficacy in reducing fatigue in patients 
treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) for chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML).
PURPOSE: The aim of the current analyses was to explore whether fatigue 
perpetuating factors (disturbed sleep/wake cycle, dysregulated activity 
patterns, maladaptive cognitions about fatigue and cancer, insufficient 
processing of cancer and treatment, inadequate social support and interactions, 
heightened fear of cancer progression) changed over time in patients receiving 
CBT-TTF, and whether the effect of CBT-TTF on fatigue was mediated by these 
factors.
METHODS: Secondary data analyses were conducted from a pilot randomized 
controlled trial. Patients with CML treated with a TKI who reported moderate to 
severe fatigue were randomized 2:1 to CBT-TTF delivered via FaceTime for iPad or 
a waitlist control condition (WLC). Self-report measures of fatigue and fatigue 
perpetuating factors were obtained before randomization and post-intervention 
(i.e., approximately 18 weeks later). Mixed model and mediation analyses using 
bootstrap methods were used.
RESULTS: A total of 36 participants (CBT-TTF n = 22, WLC n = 14) who had 
baseline and 18-week follow-up data and attended >5 sessions for CBT-TTF were 
included. Participants randomized to CBT-TTF reported improvements in activity 
(mental, physical, social, p's ≤ .023) and cognitions (helplessness, 
catastrophizing, focusing on symptoms, self-efficacy, p's ≤ .003) compared to 
WLC. Mental activity, social activity, self-efficacy, helplessness, and focusing 
on symptoms, as well as sleep and insufficient processing (avoidance) mediated 
the relationship between treatment group and fatigue.
CONCLUSIONS: CBT-TTF appears to improve TKI-related fatigue in CML patients 
through changes in behavior (sleep, activity patterns) and cognitions about 
fatigue and cancer. A larger randomized controlled trial is warranted to confirm 
these findings.

© Society of Behavioral Medicine 2021. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/abm/kaab035
PMCID: PMC8832107
PMID: 33991085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2021 Jun;52:101951. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2021.101951. Epub 2021 
Mar 19.

Progression of self-management learning experiences of young adults following an 
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: A qualitative study.

Vinette B(1), Bilodeau K(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of Montreal, Canada. Electronic address: 
billy.vinette@umontreal.ca.
(2)Faculty of Nursing, University of Montreal, Canada; Center for Innovation in 
Nursing Education, Canada.

PURPOSE: Hematological diseases are among the most common forms of cancer that 
can affect young adults. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a common 
intervention to treat blood-related cancers such as leukemia and lymphoma. 
Allogeneic stem cell transplants can provoke many acute and chronic symptoms. 
Young adult cancer survivors are expected to develop expertise to self-manage 
these symptoms. However, learning self-management can be quite challenging for 
young adults. This paper aims to describe the symptoms self-management learning 
experiences of young adults following an allogeneic stem cell transplant.
METHOD: A qualitative descriptive study was conducted to describe 
self-management learning experiences of young adults (18-39 years old) following 
an allogeneic stem cell transplant. Semi-structured interviews were conducted 
(n = 7, mean age 26 years old, mean time since allogeneic stem cell transplant 
was 14,71 months). Iterative qualitative content analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Participants who had undergone an allogeneic stem cell transplant 
described learning self-management as a progressive process, with expertise 
having to be developed through experience. Certain factors could positively or 
negatively affect the learning process and hence the development of this 
self-management expertise. With time, these young adults developed interoceptive 
ability and body awareness related to their symptoms, which influenced their 
self-management.
CONCLUSIONS: Following an allogeneic stem cell transplant, young adults need to 
be supported during their survivorship to develop self-management expertise. 
Nurses must adapt care according to patients' level of expertise to promote 
autonomy, development of interoceptive ability, and acquisition of 
self-management skills.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2021.101951
PMID: 33774375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Leuk Lymphoma. 2021 Sep;62(9):2253-2260. doi: 10.1080/10428194.2021.1901096. 
Epub 2021 Mar 22.

Myeloproliferative neoplasm questionnaire: assessing patient disease knowledge 
in the modern digital information era.

Pemmaraju N(1), Wilson NR(2), Clementi Doan T(3), Qiao W(1), Peterson SK(1), 
Zoeller V(1), Schorr A(3), Verstovsek S(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Patient Power, LLC, Bellevue, WA, USA.

There is growing Internet and social media use among patients with rare blood 
cancers, notably myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). A 38-item online 
questionnaire was developed to assess patients' (n = 983) disease understanding 
and use of online resources regarding MPN. Many responders (74%) reported 
unawareness of additional mutations beyond their primary molecular marker(s); 
32% were unsure of their prognostic risk stratification. Additionally, 89% 
reported using online resources (Facebook (61%); Google/Google+ (42%); YouTube 
(34%); blogs (26%); Twitter (5%)) to seek information about MPN. Despite this, 
results showed many gaps in patients' basic disease knowledge. Our findings 
suggest an important difference in social media habits between physicians and 
patients: physicians are rapidly adopting Twitter as their preferred medium for 
sharing medical knowledge; however, patients often prefer other social mediums. 
Educational campaigns should be designed in more personalized ways, aiming to 
fit a variety of online platforms to maximize reach and impact for patients with 
MPN.

DOI: 10.1080/10428194.2021.1901096
PMCID: PMC9938727
PMID: 33749512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Adv Pract Oncol. 2021 Jan-Feb;12(1):59-70. doi: 10.6004/jadpro.2021.12.1.5. 
Epub 2021 Jan 1.

Advanced Practice Perspectives on Preventing and Managing Tumor Lysis Syndrome 
and Neutropenia in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia.

Goodrich A(1).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center, Baltimore, Maryland.

Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) and neutropenia are significant toxicities in the 
treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Both TLS and neutropenia can 
lead to potentially life-threatening complications for patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia undergoing antineoplastic therapy. This article focuses on 
diligent risk assessment, prophylaxis, early identification, monitoring, patient 
education, and prompt intervention for TLS and neutropenia. These are all 
necessary steps to reduce life-threatening complications. Guidelines are 
available for risk assessments for both TLS and neutropenia. Once risk is 
established, prophylaxis and monitoring recommendations can be found in 
available guidelines. There are no established guidelines or widely used 
decision-making standards for the treatment of clinical TLS. General management 
strategies are well documented in the literature, with some degree of 
customization to each individual patient. If fever occurs in the setting of 
neutropenia, there are well-established guidelines for management, including 
guidance on anti-infective agents and use of growth factors. In addition, 
awareness and proper actions regarding TLS and neutropenia are key to preventing 
treatment delays, dose reductions, or treatment discontinuation. Adequate 
planning for TLS and neutropenia is critical to optimize patient outcomes.

© 2021 Harborside™.

DOI: 10.6004/jadpro.2021.12.1.5
PMCID: PMC7844191
PMID: 33552662

Conflict of interest statement: Ms. Goodrich has served a consultant for Janssen 
Oncology.


66. Comput Inform Nurs. 2021 Jun;39(6):312-320. doi: 10.1097/CIN.0000000000000690.

The Self-management Smartphone Application for Cancer Survivors, ReLive: 
Development and Usability Testing.

Song CE(1), An M.

Author information:
(1)Author Affiliations: Nambu University Department of Nursing (Dr Song); and 
Chonnam National University College of Nursing (Dr An), Gwangju, South Korea.

ReLive is a nursing theory-driven and evidence-based smartphone application that 
aims to promote self-management among cancer survivors. It has been designed to 
display symptom measurement results in different traffic light colors, depending 
on the severity of a user's symptoms (eg, severe symptoms are presented in red). 
Therefore, it is easy for users to draw inferences about changes in their 
symptoms. Further, users can simultaneously set several physical activity goals 
and monitor their performance. Social support, self-efficacy, and quality of 
life of a user can also be monitored regularly. This study investigated the 
usability of this application. An iterative formative test, including a 
cognitive walkthrough and face-to-face interviews, was conducted. Participants 
were seven individuals with a diagnosis of chronic myeloid leukemia. The ease of 
use and understanding, acceptability, and usefulness of the application were 
evaluated. The results revealed that the participants had evaluated ReLive 
positively. This program could be used as an intervention to deliver health 
information and manage their performance. Further research is needed to assess 
the application's effects on self-management among survivors of various types of 
cancers.

Copyright © 2020 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/CIN.0000000000000690
PMID: 33214389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Support Care Cancer. 2021 Jun;29(6):3077-3089. doi: 10.1007/s00520-020-05819-w. 
Epub 2020 Oct 13.

Patient ambassador support in newly diagnosed patients with acute leukemia 
during treatment: a feasibility study.

Nørskov KH(1), Overgaard D(2), Boesen J(3), Struer A(4), El-Azem SEWD(4), Tolver 
A(5), Lomborg K(6)(7), Kjeldsen L(8), Jarden M(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Rigshspitalet, Blegdamsvej 9, 2100, Copenhagen Ø, 
Denmark. Kristina.holmegaard.noerskov@regionh.dk.
(2)University College Copenhagen, Tagensvej 18, 2200, Copenhagen N, Denmark.
(3)Department of Hematology, Herlev Hospital, Borgmester Ib Juuls Vej 1, 2730, 
Herlev, Denmark.
(4)Department of Hematology, Zealand University Hospital, Roskilde, Sygehusvej 
10, 4000, Roskilde, Denmark.
(5)Data Science Laboratory, Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 5, 2200, Copenhagen N, Denmark.
(6)Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University, Paalle Juul-Jensens 
Boulevard 82, 8200, Aarhus N, Denmark.
(7)Department of Clinical Research, Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen (SDCC), 
Niels Steensens Vej 2, 2820, Gentofte, Denmark.
(8)Department of Hematology, Rigshspitalet, Blegdamsvej 9, 2100, Copenhagen Ø, 
Denmark.
(9)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3B, 
2200 Copenhagen N, Copenhagen, Denmark.

PURPOSE: This study investigated the feasibility of patient ambassador support 
in newly diagnosed patients with acute leukemia during treatment.
METHODS: A multicenter single-arm feasibility study that included patients newly 
diagnosed with acute leukemia (n = 36) and patient ambassadors previously 
treated for acute leukemia (n = 25). Prior to the intervention, all patient 
ambassadors attended a 6-h group training program. In the intervention, patient 
ambassadors provided 12 weeks of support for patients within 2 weeks of being 
diagnosed. Outcome measures included feasibility (primary outcome), safety, 
anxiety, and depression measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, 
quality of life by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Leukemia and the 
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life 
Questionnaire, and symptom burden by MD Anderson Symptom Inventory, the Patient 
Activation Measure, and the General Self-Efficacy Scale.
RESULTS: Patient ambassador support was feasible and safe in this population. 
Patients and patient ambassadors reported high satisfaction with the 
individually adjusted support, and patients improved in psychosocial outcomes 
over time. Patient ambassadors maintained their psychosocial baseline level, 
with no adverse events, and used the available support to exchange experiences 
with other patient ambassadors and to manage challenges.
CONCLUSION: The patient ambassador support program is feasible and has the 
potential to be a new model of care incorporated in the hematology clinical care 
setting, creating an active partnership between patients and former patients. 
This may strengthen the existing supportive care services for patients with 
acute leukemia.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03493906.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-020-05819-w
PMCID: PMC8062400
PMID: 33051828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


68. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2021 Oct;27(7):1644-1656. doi: 10.1177/1078155220964539. 
Epub 2020 Oct 12.

Acceptability of pharmacist-led interventions to resolve drug-related problems 
in patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia.

Tan BK(1)(2), Chua SS(1), Chen LC(3), Chang KM(4), Balashanker S(5), Bee PC(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, Taylor's 
University, Subang Jaya, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 37447University of Malaya, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Centre for Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety, Division of Pharmacy and 
Optometry, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, 
University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, 
UK.
(4)Department of Hematology, 26691Ministry of Health Malaysia, Ampang Hospital, 
Ampang Jaya, Malaysia.
(5)School of Pharmacy, University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus, Semenyih, 
Malaysia.

PURPOSE: Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) patients on long-term tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor (TKI) therapy are susceptible to drug-related problems (DRPs). This 
study aimed to evaluate the acceptability and outcomes of pharmacist-led 
interventions on DRPs encountered by CML patients.
METHODS: This study included participants from the intervention arm of a 
randomised controlled trial which was conducted to evaluate the effects of 
pharmacist-led interventions on CML patients treated with TKIs. Participants 
were recruited and followed up in the haematology clinics of two hospitals in 
Malaysia from March 2017 to January 2019. A pharmacist identified DRPs and 
helped to resolve them. Patients were followed-up for six months, and their DRPs 
were assessed based on the Pharmaceutical Care Network Europe Classification for 
DRP v7.0. The identified DRPs, the pharmacist's interventions, and the 
acceptance and outcomes of the interventions were recorded. A Poisson 
multivariable regression model was used to analyse factors associated with the 
number of identified DRPs per participant.
RESULTS: A total of 198 DRPs were identified from 65 CML patients. The median 
number of DRPs per participants was 3 (interquartile range: 2, 4). Most 
participants (97%) had at least one DRP, which included adverse drug events 
(45.5%), treatment ineffectiveness (31.5%) and patients' treatment concerns or 
dissatisfaction (23%). The 228 causes of DRPs identified comprised the 
following: lack of disease or treatment information, or outcome monitoring 
(47.8%), inappropriate drug use processes (23.2%), inappropriate patient 
behaviour (19.9%), suboptimal drug selection (6.1%), suboptimal dose selection 
(2.6%) and logistic issues in dispensing (0.4%). The number of concomitant 
medications was significantly associated with the number of DRPs (adjusted Odds 
Ratio: 1.100; 95% CI: 1.005, 1.205; p = 0.040). Overall, 233 interventions were 
made. These included providing patient education on disease states or 
TKI-related side effects (75.1%) and recommending appropriate instructions for 
taking medications (7.7%). Of the 233 interventions, 94.4% were accepted and 
83.7% were implemented by the prescriber or patient. A total of 154 DRPs (77.3%) 
were resolved.
CONCLUSIONS: The pharmacist-led interventions among CML patients managed to 
identify various DRPs, were well accepted by both TKI prescribers and patients, 
and had a high success rate of resolving the DRPs.

DOI: 10.1177/1078155220964539
PMID: 33040675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Ann Hematol. 2020 Jul;99(7):1615-1625. doi: 10.1007/s00277-020-04045-y. Epub 
2020 Jun 1.

Improved time to treatment failure and survival in ibrutinib-treated 
malignancies with a pharmaceutical care program: an observational cohort study.

Zerbit J(1), Chevret S(2)(3), Bernard S(4), Kroemer M(5), Ablard C(1), Harel 
S(6), Brice P(4), Madelaine I(1), Thieblemont C(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, APHP, Saint-Louis Hospital, Paris, France.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Information, APHP, Saint-Louis 
Hospital, Paris, France.
(3)Paris Diderot University, Sorbonne Paris-Cité, Paris, France.
(4)Hemato-Oncology Department, APHP, Saint-Louis Hospital, 1, Avenue Claude 
Vellefaux, 75010, Paris, France.
(5)Pharmacy Department, University Hospital Center of Besançon, Besançon, 
France.
(6)Immuno-Hematology Department, APHP, Saint-Louis Hospital, Paris, France.
(7)Paris Diderot University, Sorbonne Paris-Cité, Paris, France. 
catherine.thieblemont@aphp.fr.
(8)Hemato-Oncology Department, APHP, Saint-Louis Hospital, 1, Avenue Claude 
Vellefaux, 75010, Paris, France. catherine.thieblemont@aphp.fr.

Ibrutinib treatment has been shown to increase survival in patients with B cell 
malignancies. Real-life data suggest a large part of discontinuations are due to 
toxicities, impairing ibrutinib efficacy. We aimed to assess the impact of a 
pharmaceutical care program on the efficacy and safety of ibrutinib. This 
single-center, cohort, observational study enrolled patients with B cell 
malignancies. Patients were either assigned to the program or to receive usual 
care, based on physician decision. The program was conducted by clinical 
pharmacists specializing in oncology and included patient education for 
management of toxicities, adherence monitoring, interventions to reduce 
drug-drug interactions, and follow-up of transition from hospital to community. 
Between February 2014 and May 2017, we enrolled 155 patients, including 42 (27%) 
who were allocated to the program group and 113 (73%) to the usual care group. 
The effect of the program was beneficial in terms of time to treatment failure 
(p = 0.0005). The 30-month progression-free and overall survivals were 
significantly superior in the program group (respectively p = 0.002 and 
p = 0.004). Grade 3 or higher adverse events occurred more frequently for 
patients in the usual care group (15%) than program group (8%). A pharmaceutical 
care program provides a personalized environment for outpatient monitoring and 
control of the key risks associated with oral anticancer agents. This study 
shows evidence that management of ibrutinib treatment by clinical pharmacists 
results in significant improvement in survival and better tolerance than usual 
care.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-020-04045-y
PMCID: PMC7316844
PMID: 32483668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


70. J Med Internet Res. 2020 May 15;22(5):e15895. doi: 10.2196/15895.

The Development of a Web-Based, Patient-Centered Intervention for Patients With 
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CMyLife): Design Thinking Development Approach.

Ector GI(1), Westerweel PE(2), Hermens RP(3), Braspenning KA(3), Heeren BC(4), 
Vinck OM, de Jong JJ(5), Janssen JJ(6), Blijlevens NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Hematology, Albert Schweitzer Hospital, Dordrecht, Netherlands.
(3)Department of IQ Healthcare, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(4)REshape Innovation Center, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(5)Dutch Patient Advocacy Group 'Hematon', Utrecht, Netherlands.
(6)Department of Hematology, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam University Medical Centers, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: With the global rise in chronic health conditions, health care is 
transforming, and patient empowerment is being emphasized to improve treatment 
outcomes and reduce health care costs. Patient-centered innovations are needed. 
We focused on patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), a chronic disease 
with a generally good long-term prognosis because of the advent of tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors. However, both medication adherence by patients and guideline 
adherence by physicians are suboptimal, unnecessarily jeopardizing treatment 
outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a patient-centered innovation 
for patients with CML using a design thinking methodology.
METHODS: The 5 phases of design thinking (ie, empathize, define, ideate, 
prototype, and test) were completed, and each phase started with the patient. 
Stakeholders and end users were identified and interviewed, and observations in 
the care system were made. Using tools in human-centered design, problems were 
defined and various prototypes of solutions were generated. These were evaluated 
by patients and stakeholders and then further refined.
RESULTS: The patients desired (1) insights into their own disease; (2) insights 
into the symptoms experienced, both in terms of knowledge and comprehension; and 
(3) improvements in the organization of care delivery. A web-based platform, 
CMyLife, was developed and pilot-tested. It has multiple features, all targeting 
parts of the bigger solution, including a website with reliable information and 
a forum, a guideline app, personal medical records with logs of symptoms and 
laboratory results (including a molecular marker and linked to the guideline 
app), tailored feedback based on the patients' symptoms and/or results, 
screen-to-screen consulting, delivery of medication, and the collection of blood 
samples at home.
CONCLUSIONS: The multifeatured innovation, CMyLife, was developed in a 
multidisciplinary way and with active patient participation. The aim of 
developing CMyLife was to give patients the tools to monitor their results, 
interpret these results, and act on them. With this tool, they are provided with 
the know-how to consider their results in relation to their personal care 
process. Whether CMyLife achieves its goal and the evaluation of the added value 
will be the focus of future studies. CML could become the first malignancy for 
which patients are able to monitor and manage their disease by themselves.

©Geneviève ICG Ector, Peter E Westerweel, Rosella PMG Hermens, Karin AE 
Braspenning, Barend CM Heeren, Oscar MF Vinck, Jan JM de Jong, Jeroen JWM 
Janssen, Nicole MA Blijlevens. Originally published in the Journal of Medical 
Internet Research (http://www.jmir.org), 15.05.2020.

DOI: 10.2196/15895
PMCID: PMC7260663
PMID: 32412424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: GE, PW, RH, KB, BH, OV, 
JJ, NB have no conflicts of interests to declare. JJWJ received research support 
by Novartis and BMS, and honoraria of Abbvie, Novartis, Pfizer and Incyte. He is 
the president of the Apps for Care and Science Foundation which develops the 
HematologyApp. This nonprofit foundation is supported by Amgen, Daiichi-Sankyo, 
Janssen, Incyte, BMS, Servier, Jazz, and Celgene.


71. J Med Internet Res. 2020 May 14;22(5):e17018. doi: 10.2196/17018.

Web-Based Self-Management for Patients With Lymphoma: Assessment of the Reach of 
Intervention of a Randomized Controlled Trial.

Arts LPJ(1), Oerlemans S(1)(2), Posthuma EFM(3), Issa DE(4), Oosterveld M(5), 
van der Griend R(6), Nijziel MR(7), van de Poll-Franse LV(1)(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organisation, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(2)Center of Research on Psychology in Somatic Diseases, Department of Medical 
and Clinical Psychology, Tilburg University, Tilburg, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Reinier de Graaf Hospital, Delft, 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Jeroen Bosch Hospital, 's-Hertogenbosch, 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Canisius-Wilhelmina Hospital, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Diakonessenhuis, Utrecht/Zeist, Netherlands.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, Netherlands.
(8)Division of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, Netherlands Cancer 
Institute, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) often provide accurate estimates 
of the internal validity of an intervention but lack information on external 
validity (generalizability). We conducted an RCT on the effectiveness of a 
self-management intervention among patients with lymphoma in a population-based 
setting.
OBJECTIVE: The objectives of the current study were to describe the proportion 
of RCT participants compared to all patients invited to participate, and compare 
sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of RCT participants with all 
respondents, all patients invited to participate, and all patients selected from 
the Netherlands Cancer Registry (NCR) to determine the reach of the 
intervention. An additional objective was to assess differences on RCT outcome 
variables between RCT and paper respondents.
METHODS: Patients with lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia ≥18 years old at 
diagnosis from 13 hospitals in the Netherlands were selected from the 
population-based NCR, which routinely collects data on sociodemographic and 
clinical characteristics. Eligible patients were invited to participate in an 
RCT and complete a questionnaire. Web-based completion determined RCT 
enrollment, whereas paper respondents were followed observationally.
RESULTS: A total of 1193 patients were selected from the NCR, 892 (74.77%) of 
whom were invited to participate in the trial by their hematologist after 
verifying eligibility. Among those invited, 25.4% (227/892) completed the 
web-based questionnaire and were enrolled in the RCT. The RCT participants were 
younger and there was a higher proportion of men than nonparticipants (P<.001). 
In addition, 25.7% (229/892) of those invited opted to participate in the 
paper-based observational follow-up study. Compared with paper respondents, RCT 
participants were younger (P<.001), with a higher proportion of men (P=.002), 
and had higher education levels (P=.02). RCT participants more often wanted to 
receive all available information on their disease (P<.001), whereas paper 
respondents reported higher levels of emotional distress (P=.009).
CONCLUSIONS: From a population-based sample of eligible patients, the 
participation rate in the RCT was approximately 25%. RCT participants may not be 
representative of the target population because of different sociodemographic 
and clinical characteristics. Since RCT participants represent a minority of the 
target population, RCT results should be interpreted with caution as patients in 
the RCT may be those least in need of a self-management intervention.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register NTR5953; 
https://www.trialregister.nl/trial/5790.

©Lindy P J Arts, Simone Oerlemans, Eduardus F M Posthuma, Djamila E Issa, 
Margriet Oosterveld, René van der Griend, Marten R Nijziel, Lonneke V van de 
Poll-Franse. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research 
(http://www.jmir.org), 14.05.2020.

DOI: 10.2196/17018
PMCID: PMC7256744
PMID: 32406858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


72. Blood. 2020 Jun 25;135(26):2354-2364. doi: 10.1182/blood.2019003116.

How I treat pain in hematologic malignancies safely with opioid therapy.

Geyer HL(1), Gazelka H(2), Mesa R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN; and.
(3)Department of Hematology, University of Texas Health San Antonio Cancer 
Center, San Antonio, TX.

The field of malignant hematology has experienced extraordinary advancements 
with survival rates doubling for many disorders. As a result, many 
life-threatening conditions have since evolved into chronic medical ailments. 
Paralleling these advancements have been increasing rates of complex hematologic 
pain syndromes, present in up to 60% of patients with malignancy who are 
receiving active treatment and up to 33% of patients during survivorship. 
Opioids remain the practice cornerstone to managing malignancy-associated pain. 
Prevention and management of opioid-related complications have received 
significant national attention over the past decade, and emerging data suggest 
that patients with cancer are at equal if not higher risk of opioid-related 
complications when compared with patients without malignancy. Numerous tools and 
procedural practice guides are available to help facilitate safe prescribing. 
The recent development of cancer-specific resources directing algorithmic use of 
validated pain screening tools, prescription drug monitoring programs, urine 
drug screens, opioid use disorder risk screening instruments, and controlled 
substance agreements have further strengthened the framework for safe 
prescribing. This article, which integrates federal and organizational 
guidelines with known risk factors for cancer patients, offers a case-based 
discussion for reviewing safe opioid prescribing practices in the hematology 
setting.

© 2020 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.2019003116
PMCID: PMC8765122
PMID: 32352512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Future Oncol. 2020 Jan;16(2):4395-4408. doi: 10.2217/fon-2019-0555. Epub 2019 
Dec 13.

The role of bosutinib in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia.

Gambacorti-Passerini C(1), le Coutre P(2)(3), Piazza R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine & Surgery, University of Milano-Bicocca, Italy.
(2)Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zuBerlin, Germany.
(3)Berlin Institute of Health, Department of Hematology, Oncology, and Tumor 
Immunology, Berlin, Germany.

The availability of several BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) options 
means physicians and patients can select the most appropriate treatment for a 
patient with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). BCR-ABL TKI selection as a first- 
or later-line therapy is dependent on a number of clinical factors. Regular 
monitoring of patients, patient education, dose optimization and management of 
treatment-emergent adverse events are key aspects of long-term chronic myeloid 
leukemia management and contribute to improved clinical outcomes, quality of 
life, patient adherence and healthcare costs. This review provides an overview 
of the BCR-ABL1 TKI bosutinib, its pharmacology and clinical trials; discusses 
the impact of comorbidities and concomitant medications on bosutinib treatment 
selection; and suggests strategies for managing adverse events and dose 
optimization during bosutinib treatment.

DOI: 10.2217/fon-2019-0555
PMID: 31833784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Adolesc Young Adult Oncol. 2020 Feb;9(1):111-114. doi: 
10.1089/jayao.2019.0063. Epub 2019 Nov 19.

Evaluating the Framed Portrait Experience as an Intervention to Enhance 
Self-Efficacy and Self-Esteem in a Sample of Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer 
Survivors: Results of a Pilot Study.

Saita E(1), Acquati C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milano, 
Italy.
(2)Graduate College of Social Work, University of Houston, Houston, Texas.

Cancer diagnosis and treatments negatively affect quality of life and 
developmental processes of adolescents and young adults (AYAs), with 
self-esteem, self-efficacy, and body image discomfort reported. Despite 
increasing awareness of the psychosocial issues experienced by this group, a 
paucity of psychosocial interventions has been developed. This study aims to 
investigate the Framed Portrait Experience (FPE) as an intervention to promote 
well-being among AYA cancer survivors. A pilot study was conducted using a 
quasi-experimental design. The sample included 18 AYA leukemia survivors. 
Individuals in the intervention group (n = 10) participated in the FPE, a 
psychosocial program consisting of two sessions. In the first one, starting from 
the illness narrative recollected by the individual, pictures representing the 
subject in meaningful contexts are taken. Then, a selected number of pictures 
are used in a second encounter with a therapist to integrate the disease within 
past, present, and future of the participant. Survivors in the comparison group 
(n = 8) were offered usual psychosocial care at the participating institute. 
Measures of personality traits, coping, self-efficacy, self-esteem, and body 
image were compared at pre-test and 3 months later. Significant differences in 
self-efficacy and self-esteem scores were identified at post-test between the 
intervention and comparison group (p < 0.05). No significant differences were 
identified for body self-esteem. These findings provide initial evidence 
supporting the FPE as a low-cost and easy-to-implement intervention to promote 
self-efficacy and self-esteem among AYA survivors. Further research with larger 
samples, with more rigorous designs, and different cancer types is needed.

DOI: 10.1089/jayao.2019.0063
PMID: 31742467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2019 Oct;42:21-27. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2019.07.006. Epub 2019 
Jul 17.

Self-efficacy for symptom management in the acute phase of hematopoietic stem 
cell transplant: A pilot study.

White LL(1), Kupzyk KA(2), Berger AM(3), Cohen MZ(4), Bierman PJ(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 985330 Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 68198, USA; Avera McKennan Hospital and University 
Health Center, 1325 S Cliff Ave, Sioux Falls, SD, 57105, USA; Augustana 
University, 2001 S Summit Ave, Sioux Falls, SD, 57197, USA. Electronic address: 
lynn.white@augie.edu.
(2)College of Nursing, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 985330 Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 68198, USA. Electronic address: 
kevin.kupzyk@unmc.edu.
(3)College of Nursing, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 985330 Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 68198, USA. Electronic address: aberger@unmc.edu.
(4)College of Nursing, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 985330 Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 68198, USA; VA Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care 
System, 4101 Woolworth Ave, Omaha, NE, 68105, USA. Electronic address: 
mzcohen@unmc.edu.
(5)College of Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Division of Oncology & Hematology, 983332 Nebraska Medical 
Center, Omaha, NE, 68198, USA. Electronic address: pjbierma@unmc.edu.

PURPOSE: Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) is an intensive treatment 
associated with distressing treatment and disease-related symptoms that affect 
patient outcomes such as functional status and quality of life. Self-efficacy 
for symptom management (SESM) is a person's belief in their ability to perform 
behaviors to prevent and relieve symptoms. Presence of SESM can impact symptom 
distress and functional status. This study describes the changes over time and 
relationships among SESM, symptom distress, and physical functional status in 
adults during the acute phase of HSCT.
METHODS: Patients (n = 40) completed measures of symptom distress, SESM, and 
physical function at time points prior to and at days 7, 15 and 30 
post-transplant. Clinical outcomes were length of stay and number of 
readmissions.
RESULTS: Symptom distress, physical function, and SESM changed significantly 
over time. There was a significant negative relationship between symptom 
distress and physical function and between symptom distress and SESM at all 
points. The lowest levels of SESM and physical function were at day 7 when 
symptom distress was highest. Symptom distress was a moderator for the 
relationship between physical function and SESM at day 15.
CONCLUSION: This was the first study to examine SESM in the acute phase of HSCT. 
Higher SESM was associated with fewer symptoms and increased physical function. 
Less symptom distress was associated with higher physical function and 
confidence to manage symptoms. These findings provide the basis for development 
of patient-centered interventions to enhance SESM when symptoms are at their 
highest immediately after HSCT.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2019.07.006
PMID: 31446260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2019 Aug 1;2019(53):lgz012. doi: 
10.1093/jncimonographs/lgz012.

Oral Mucosal Injury Caused by Targeted Cancer Therapies.

Carrozzo M(1), Eriksen JG(2), Bensadoun RJ(3), Boers-Doets CB(4)(5), Lalla 
RV(6), Peterson DE(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Oral Health Research, Oral Medicine Department, School of Dental 
Sciences, Newcastle University, UK.
(2)Department of Experimental Clinical Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Institut Niçois de Cancérologie (INC), Centre de Haute Energie, Nice, France.
(4)CancerMed, Department of Medical Strategy, Wormer, The Netherlands.
(5)Impaqtt Foundation, Department of Adverse Event Research & Valorisation, 
Wormer, The Netherlands.
(6)Section of Oral Medicine, Department of Oral Health & Diagnostic Sciences, 
School of Dental Medicine, UConn Health, Farmington, CT.
(7)Section of Oral Medicine, Department of Oral Health & Diagnostic Sciences, 
School of Dental Medicine & Neag Comprehensive Cancer Center, UConn Health, 
Farmington, CT.

Targeted cancer therapies have fundamentally transformed the treatment of many 
types of cancers over the past decade, including breast, colorectal, lung, and 
pancreatic cancers, as well as lymphoma, leukemia, and multiple myeloma. The 
unique mechanisms of action of these agents have resulted in many patients 
experiencing enhanced tumor response together with a reduced adverse event 
profile as well. Toxicities do continue to occur, however, and in selected cases 
can be clinically challenging to manage. Of particular importance in the context 
of this monograph is that the pathobiology for oral mucosal lesions caused by 
targeted cancer therapies has only been preliminarily investigated. There is 
distinct need for novel basic, translational, and clinical research strategies 
to enhance design of preventive and therapeutic approaches for patients at risk 
for development of these lesions. The research modeling can be conceptually 
enhanced by extrapolating "lessons learned" from selected oral mucosal 
conditions in patients without cancer as well. This approach may permit 
determination of the extent to which pathobiology and clinical management are 
either similar to or uniquely distinct from oral mucosal lesions caused by 
targeted cancer therapies. Modeling associated with oral mucosal disease in 
non-oncology patients is thus presented in this context as well. This article 
addresses this emerging paradigm, with emphasis on current mechanistic modeling 
and clinical treatment. This approach is in turn designed to foster delineation 
of new research strategies, with the goal of enhancing cancer patient treatment 
in the future.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jncimonographs/lgz012
PMID: 31425602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2020 Jan;26(1):156-174. doi: 10.1177/1078155219864640. Epub 
2019 Jul 27.

Front-line use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in chronic phase chronic myeloid 
leukemia: Practice considerations.

Reff MJ(1), Shillingburg A(2), Shah B(3), Elder C(4), Prescott H(5), 
Kennerly-Shah J(6).

Author information:
(1)National Community Oncology Dispensing Association, Inc., Cazenovia, NY, USA.
(2)Clinical Pharmacy Services and PGY2 Oncology Pharmacy Residency, Levine 
Cancer Institute, Charlotte, NC, USA.
(3)Specialty and Hematology-Oncology Pharmacy Services, Boston Medical Center, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(4)The Lloyd L. Gregory School of Pharmacy, Palm Beach Atlantic University, 
Gregory School of Pharmacy, West Palm Beach, FL, USA.
(5)Clinical Pharmacy Services and PGY2 Oncology Pharmacy Residency, Dana Farber 
Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Ohio State University Medical Center, Columbus, OH, 
USA.

The development of BCR-ABL-targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitors has transformed 
chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CP CML) from a disease with a terminal 
prognosis to a treatable chronic illness. Long-term treatment with tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors means that patients have to be clinically managed and 
monitored over extended periods of time, thus a patient-centered, medically 
integrated, and multidisciplinary oncology healthcare team is required to 
support patients through their journey. Pharmacists work with patients, 
physicians, and the wider support team to select the optimum therapy plan for a 
given patient. These decisions are based on risk factors, comorbidities, 
concomitant medications, and personal circumstances and pharmacists advise on 
the efficacy and safety of different treatment options. Additionally, 
pharmacists are a key point-of-contact and resource for monitoring patient 
response to treatment, identifying and managing adverse events and drug-drug 
interactions, any subsequent therapy plan modifications, and, potentially, 
treatment-free remission. Pharmacists also assist with patient education, 
medication adherence, and financial discussions with patients throughout the 
long course of the disease. This review provides an overview of BCR-ABL tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors, discusses the role of the medically integrated pharmacy team, 
and suggests strategies that pharmacists can use in patient management and 
clinical decision-making to optimize the treatment of CP CML.

DOI: 10.1177/1078155219864640
PMID: 31354102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Cancer Educ. 2020 Dec;35(6):1158-1169. doi: 10.1007/s13187-019-01574-7.

A Hope-Based Intervention to Address Disrupted Goal Pursuits and Quality of Life 
Among Young Adult Cancer Survivors.

Berg CJ(1), Vanderpool RC(2), Getachew B(3), Payne JB(4), Johnson MF(2), 
Sandridge Y(3), Bierhoff J(3), Le L(3), Johnson R(5), Weber A(3), Patterson 
A(3), Dorvil S(3), Mertens A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Sciences and Health Education, Rollins School of 
Public Health, Emory University, 1518 Clifton Rd NE, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA. 
cjberg@emory.edu.
(2)Markey Cancer Center, University of Kentucky, 2365 Harrodsburg Road, Suite 
A230, Lexington, KY, 40504, USA.
(3)Department of Behavioral Sciences and Health Education, Rollins School of 
Public Health, Emory University, 1518 Clifton Rd NE, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, 11794, 
USA.
(5)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University 
School of Medicine, 1599 Clifton Road NE, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University and Aflac Cancer and Blood 
Disorders Center of Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, 2015 Uppergate Dr., 
Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA.

Over 70,000 US young adults are diagnosed with cancer annually, disrupting 
important life transitions and goal pursuits. Hope is a positive psychology 
construct associated with better quality of life (QOL) that focuses on 
goal-oriented thinking. We developed and tested Achieving Wellness After Kancer 
in Early life (AWAKE), a scalable 8-week app-based program consisting of 
educational videos, mood/activity tracking, and telephone-based coaching to 
promote hope and QOL in young adult cancer survivors (YACS, 18-40 years old). A 
two-arm RCT was used to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and potential 
efficacy of AWAKE (n = 38) versus attention control (AC; n = 18) among YACS 
within 2 years of completing treatment and recruited from two NCI-designated 
cancer centers. Outcomes including hope (Trait Hope Scale), QOL (36-Item Short 
Form Health Survey; Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General), depressive 
symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), and substance use were assessed at 
baseline, 8 weeks, and 6 months. Participants were an average of 32.55 
(SD = 5.45) years old; 75.0% were female, and 80.4% White. The most common 
cancers were breast cancer (28.6%), melanoma (16.1%), and leukemia/lymphoma 
(12.5%). High retention, engagement, and satisfaction rates were documented in 
both conditions; AWAKE versus AC participants rated video content as more 
relevant (p = 0.007) and reported greater likelihood of talking positively about 
the program (p = 0.005). Many efficacy change scores showed positive trends in 
AWAKE versus AC. Reorienting to one's goal pursuits after cancer diagnosis and 
treatment is critical and may be supported through hope-based interventions. 
Findings suggest that the AWAKE warrants subsequent research testing its 
efficacy, effectiveness, and scalability.

DOI: 10.1007/s13187-019-01574-7
PMCID: PMC6954353
PMID: 31297743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


79. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2019 Aug;140:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2019.05.013. 
Epub 2019 May 25.

Hypomethylating agents in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia: A guide to 
optimal use.

Santini V(1), Ossenkoppele GJ(2).

Author information:
(1)MDS Unit, Hematology, Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, AOU 
Careggi, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(2)Department of Hematology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands. Electronic address: g.ossenkoppele@vumc.nl.

The hypomethylating agents (HMAs), decitabine and azacitidine, are valuable 
treatment options in acute myeloid leukemia patients who are not eligible for 
intensive chemotherapy. Both agents are generally well tolerated, and 
complications most commonly relate to myelosuppression. Antibiotic / antifungal 
use, regular monitoring, and proactive patient education are important to 
minimize these events, and reduce the need for dose delay. Responses to HMAs are 
often not evident for up to 6 cycles, and there is currently no validated 
clinical marker for predicting response. Hence, treatment should be continued 
for at least 4-6 cycles to ensure that patients have sufficient opportunity to 
respond. Delivery of insufficient numbers of cycles is a key reason for HMA 
failure, and premature discontinuation must be avoided. Genetic factors offer 
potential for better predicting responders to HMAs in future, but require 
further study.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2019.05.013
PMID: 31153036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Oncologist. 2019 Sep;24(9):1253-1258. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0831. Epub 
2019 Apr 3.

Exploring Patient Decision Making Regarding Discontinuation of Tyrosine Kinase 
Inhibitors for Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.

Flynn KE(1), Myers JM(2), D'Souza A(2), Schiffer CA(3), Thompson JE(4), Atallah 
E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
USA kflynn@mcw.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
USA.
(3)Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, USA.
(4)Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center, Buffalo, New York, USA.

Comment in
    Oncologist. 2020 Apr;25(4):e743. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2019-0801.

BACKGROUND: The standard treatment for chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML) is lifelong oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy. Multiple 
clinical trials have demonstrated that some patients with a sustained deep 
molecular response to TKI therapy can safely stop therapy and remain in a 
treatment-free remission. TKI discontinuation is now offered to select patients 
in routine clinical care. In order to better support patient decision making, we 
explored patients' views on TKI discontinuation and the factors patients 
consider when making this decision.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients were recruited from three U.S. academic cancer 
centers. Qualitative interviews were recorded, transcribed, and content 
analyzed.
RESULTS: We interviewed 22 patients, half of whom wanted to try TKI 
discontinuation. Eleven factors relevant to the decision emerged, and patients 
weighed these factors differently. Commonly mentioned factors included perceived 
risk of relapse, TKI side effects, financial considerations, polypharmacy, and 
willingness to change something that was working (status quo). There were 
notable differences in patients' understanding of the likelihood of achieving a 
treatment-free remission, with patients who did not want to stop TKIs more 
accurately reporting the risk of relapse than patients who wanted to stop.
CONCLUSION: This is a novel decision that will become more common as the 
prevalence of patients with well-controlled CML continues to increase. These 
results highlight the need for patient education and decision support so that 
patients and providers can make shared decisions that are informed and values 
based.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The standard treatment for chronic phase chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML) is lifelong oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy. 
Clinical trials have shown that some patients with a sustained deep molecular 
response to TKI therapy can safely stop therapy and remain in a treatment-free 
remission. TKI discontinuation is now being offered to patients outside of 
clinical trials. This study explored factors that patients who are eligible to 
try TKI discontinuation considered when making this decision. Factors relevant 
to the decision included risk of relapse, side effects, financial 
considerations, polypharmacy, and willingness to change something that was 
working. This is a novel decision that will become more common as the prevalence 
of patients with well-controlled CML continues to increase. These results 
highlight the need for decision support and outline the factors that should be 
included so that patients and providers can make shared decisions that are 
informed and values based.

© AlphaMed Press 2019.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0831
PMCID: PMC6738285
PMID: 30944185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interest 
may be found at the end of this article.


81. Leuk Lymphoma. 2019 Jul;60(7):1842-1844. doi: 10.1080/10428194.2018.1551540. 
Epub 2019 Feb 18.

The utility of a telemedicine platform to monitor adherence and adverse effects 
of tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

Copeland AC(1), Foster MC(1), Muluneh B(2), Xenakis JG(3), Ivanova A(3), 
Frankfurt O(4), Clayton M(1), Black A(5), Rapchak B(6), Wehbie RS(5).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Hematology/Oncology , University of North Carolina , Chapel 
Hill , NC , USA.
(2)b Department of Pharmacy , University of North Carolina , Chapel Hill , NC , 
USA.
(3)c Department of Biostatistics , University of North Carolina , Chapel Hill , 
NC , USA.
(4)d Department of Hematology/Oncology , Northwestern University , Chicago , IL 
, USA.
(5)e UNC Rex Healthcare , Raleigh , NC , USA.
(6)f Leap of Faith Technologies , Crystal Lake , IL , USA.

DOI: 10.1080/10428194.2018.1551540
PMID: 30773105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2018 Dec 1;22(6):E159-E165. doi: 10.1188/18.CJON.E159-E165.

Fall Risk Perceptions: A Study of Hospitalized Patients With Hematologic 
Malignancies.

Knox A.

BACKGROUND: Inpatient falls cause harm, increased length of stay, and high 
costs. Patients with hematologic malignancies have a unique set of fall risk 
factors, and studies indicate that patients lack accurate perception of fall 
risk.
OBJECTIVES: This study describes patient perceptions of fall risk in people with 
hematologic malignancies and compares patient and nurse perceptions of fall 
risk.
METHODS: This mixed-methods study used descriptive statistical and narrative 
analyses. A convenience sample of patients was interviewed about perception of 
fall risk. Descriptive analysis of patient data and analysis around correlation 
between patient and nurse assessment of fall risk were completed.
FINDINGS: Themes emerged about participants' prior experience with falls and 
perceptions of fall education. Participants who reported feeling weak prior to 
hospitalization perceived being at high fall risk, consistent with nurse 
assessment. Several patients reported feeling at low risk. Data showed 
discrepancies in patients' perceptions of nursing education.

DOI: 10.1188/18.CJON.E159-E165
PMID: 30452005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Glob Oncol. 2018 Sep;4:1-10. doi: 10.1200/JGO.2016.007906. Epub 2017 Mar 24.

Variation in Adherence Measures to Imatinib Therapy.

Yanamandra U(1), Malhotra P(1), Sahu KK(1), Sushma Y(1), Saini N(1), Chauhan 
P(1), Gill J(1), Rikhi D(1), Khadwal A(1), Prakash G(1), Lad D(1), Suri V(1), 
Kumari S(1), Varma N(1), Varma S(1).

Author information:
(1)Uday Yanamandra, Pankaj Malhotra, K.K. Sahu, Neha Saini, Pooja Chauhan, 
Jasmeen Gill, Deepika Rikhi, Alka Khadwal, Gaurav Prakash, Deepesh Lad, Vikas 
Suri, Savita Kumari, Neelam Varma, and Subhash Varma, Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh; and Yanamandra Sushma, Max Hospital, 
Mohali, Punjab, India.

PURPOSE: The introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors has transformed the care 
of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, with survival approaching that of 
healthy individuals. Current-day challenges in chronic myeloid leukemia care 
include adherence to tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy. We studied adherence 
from resource-constrained settings and tried to analyze the factors responsible 
for nonadherence in these individuals. We also correlated adherence to current 
molecular status.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a single-center, cross-sectional, observational 
study from north India. It consisted of a questionnaire-based survey in which a 
one-to-one interview technique was used by trained nursing staff administering 
the Modified Morisky Adherence Scale (MMAS-9) questionnaire. Adherence was also 
measured on the basis of physician's assessment. JMP 13.0.0 was used for 
statistical analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 333 patients with a median age of 42 years were included in 
the study. The median BCR-ABL/ABL ratio (IS) was 0.175 (0.0 to 98.0). The mean 
MMAS-9 score was 11 ± 2. Adherence was seen in 54.95% on the basis of MMAS-9, 
whereas physician's assessment reported adherence in 90.39% of patients. Using 
the χ2 test, no relationship was found between the two assessment techniques. 
There was a significant relationship between major molecular response status and 
adherence by physician's assessment and MMAS-9 ( P < .001). Bivariate analysis 
by logistic fit showed a good relation between the MMAS-9 score and the 
BCR-ABL/ABL ratio (IS), χ2 (1,220) = 135.45 ( P < .001). On multivariate 
analysis, enrolment in the Novartis Oncology Access program (a patient 
assistance program) was significantly associated with adherence ( P = .012).
CONCLUSION: This study highlights the lack of adherence in real-world settings 
and the various factors responsible. Such studies are important from a public 
health services perspective in various settings around the world because they 
may lead to corrective action being taken at the institutional level.

DOI: 10.1200/JGO.2016.007906
PMCID: PMC6223484
PMID: 30241224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2019 Jan;124(1):56-61. doi: 10.1111/bcpt.13093. 
Epub 2018 Aug 2.

Impact of patient education on plasma concentrations and effectiveness of 
posaconazole oral suspension under clinical conditions.

Geist MJP(1), Egerer G(2), Mikus G(3), Blank A(3), Hohmann N(3), Heinz WJ(4), 
Carls A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine V, Heidelberg University Hospital, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacoepidemiology, Heidelberg 
University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine II, University of Wuerzburg Medical Center, 
Wuerzburg, Germany.

Posaconazole prophylaxis is recommended for patients with acute myeloid 
leukaemia during induction chemotherapy. Although a tablet formulation with 
better oral bioavailability is available, some patients have to rely on the oral 
suspension in clinical routine. Therefore, effectiveness of posaconazole oral 
suspension under real-life clinical conditions and impact of patient education 
about the correct intake on its plasma concentrations were assessed in this 
study. Altogether 96 patients receiving 160 cycles of induction chemotherapy 
were retrospectively (40 patients) and prospectively (56 patients) analysed. 
Patients were assigned into two groups for each chemotherapy cycle according to 
the application of antifungal prophylaxis (A: posaconazole oral suspension, 200 
mg three times a day ≥7 days; B: intake <7 days, fluconazole or no prophylaxis). 
Antifungal prophylaxis and therapy were analysed for each cycle. Additionally, 
plasma concentrations were determined from prospectively included subjects of 
group A who were intensively educated to perform a correct drug intake. Systemic 
antifungal therapy was statistically started less often in group A (26% vs 53%; 
P = 0.002). Posaconazole prophylaxis was associated with a lower risk of proven 
invasive fungal infection (P = 0.003). Median plasma concentration apparently 
increased between the first and second time of determination effected by an 
initial intensive on-site patient education. The clinical effectiveness of 
posaconazole oral suspension was confirmed. A detailed patient education at the 
beginning of the treatment with posaconazole oral suspensions seems to be of 
primary importance for efficient plasma concentrations.

© 2018 Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic 
Pharmacological Society).

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.13093
PMID: 29989301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Oncol Pract. 2018 Jun;14(6):e324-e334. doi: 10.1200/JOP.17.00039. Epub 2018 
May 25.

Improved Adherence Rates and Clinical Outcomes of an Integrated, Closed-Loop, 
Pharmacist-Led Oral Chemotherapy Management Program.

Muluneh B(1), Schneider M(1), Faso A(1), Amerine L(1), Daniels R(1), Crisp B(1), 
Valgus J(1), Savage S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill; UNC Medical Center, Chapel 
Hill, NC; and Ralph H. Johnson Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Charleston, SC.

PURPOSE: To address the growing use of oral anticancer therapy, an integrated, 
closed-loop, pharmacist-led oral chemotherapy management program was created 
within an academic medical center.
METHODS: An integrated, closed-loop, pharmacy-led oral chemotherapy management 
program was established. From September 2014 until June 2015, demographic 
information, rates of adherence, patient understanding of treatment, pharmacist 
interventions, patient and provider satisfaction, and molecular response rates 
in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) were collected.
RESULTS: After full implementation, 107 patients were enrolled in our oral 
chemotherapy management program from September 2014 until June 2015. All 
patients were educated before starting oral chemotherapy, and using pre- and 
postassessment tests, comprehension of oral chemotherapy treatment increased 
from 43% to 95%. Patient-reported adherence was 86% and 94.7% for the GI/breast 
and malignant hematology patient populations, respectively, and these were 
validated with medication possession ratio, revealing adherence rates of 85% and 
93.9% for the GI/breast and malignant hematology patient populations, 
respectively. A total of 350 encounters with a clinical pharmacist and 318 
adverse effects were reported, which led to 235 interventions. This program led 
to a higher major molecular response rate (83%) in our CML population compared 
with published clinical trials (average major molecular response rates, 40% and 
60% with 1- and 2-year follow-up, respectively).
CONCLUSION: An innovative model was developed and resulted in improved patient 
knowledge regarding oral chemotherapy, improved adherence rates that exceeded 
nationally established thresholds, and superior major molecular response 
outcomes for patients with CML compared with published literature. As a result, 
this model has produced the gold standard in managing patients receiving oral 
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1200/JOP.17.00039
PMID: 29799768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Psychooncology. 2018 Sep;27(9):2104-2110. doi: 10.1002/pon.4774. Epub 2018 Jun 
14.

Associations between the smoking-relatedness of a cancer type, cessation 
attitudes and beliefs, and future abstinence among recent quitters.

Martínez Ú(1), Brandon TH(1)(2)(3), Sutton SK(2)(3)(4), Simmons VN(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Outcomes and Behavior, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, 
Tampa, FL, USA.
(2)Department of Oncologic Sciences, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, 
USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, 
Tampa, FL, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Smoking after a diagnosis of cancer can negatively impact treatment 
outcomes and quality of life. It is important that patients quit smoking and 
remain abstinent regardless of cancer type. Some cancer types (eg, lung) have 
stronger links to smoking as a cause than do others (eg, colorectal). The aims 
of this study were to (1) assess associations between smoking-relatedness of the 
cancer type with beliefs and attitudes concerning smoking abstinence (eg, 
confidence, self-efficacy), and (2) assess these variables as predictors of 
future abstinence.
METHODS: In this secondary analysis, cancer patients (N = 357) who quit smoking 
within the previous 90 days were assigned a code of 3, 2, or 1 according to the 
cancer type's level of smoking-relatedness: Very related (n = 134, thoracic and 
head and neck), Somewhat related (n = 93, acute myeloid leukemia, bladder, 
cervix, colorectal, esophageal, kidney, liver, pancreas, and stomach), and 
Unlikely related (n = 137, all other cancer types).
RESULTS: Smoking-relatedness was positively associated with plan to stay 
smoke-free, maximum confidence in being smoke-free in 6 months, higher 
abstinence self-efficacy, and lower expected difficulty in staying smoke-free. 
Each of the 4 beliefs and attitude variables predicted abstinence 2 months 
later. Smoking-relatedness also predicted abstinence in a univariate model, but 
not in a multivariable model with the belief and attitude variables. Using 
backwards stepwise procedures, the final model included plan to stay smoke-free, 
confidence in being smoke-free, and abstinence self-efficacy.
CONCLUSION: These results are consistent with our conceptualization of cessation 
motivation differing by smoking-relatedness of the cancer type and predicting 
future abstinence.

Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.4774
PMCID: PMC6156937
PMID: 29785718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST Dr Thomas Brandon has 
received research support from Pfizer, Inc.


87. Clin Lymphoma Myeloma Leuk. 2018 Jun;18(6):375-379. doi: 
10.1016/j.clml.2018.04.005. Epub 2018 Apr 25.

Considerations for Treatment-free Remission in Patients With Chronic Myeloid 
Leukemia: A Joint Patient-Physician Perspective.

Saglio G(1), Sharf G(2), Almeida A(3), Bogdanovic A(4), Bombaci F(5), Čugurović 
J(6), Deekes N(7), Garcia-Gutiérrez V(8), de Jong J(9), Narbutas Š(10), 
Westerweel P(11), Zackova D(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Turin, Turin, 
Italy. Electronic address: gsaglio@unito.it.
(2)CML Advocates Network, Netanya, Israel.
(3)Hospital da Luz, Lisbon, Portugal.
(4)Clinical Centre of Serbia, University of Belgrade, School of Medicine, 
Belgrade, Serbia.
(5)Gruppo AIL Pazienti Leucemia Mieloide Cronica, Rome, Italy.
(6)CML Association of Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia.
(7)CML UK, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(8)Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Ramón y Cajal Health Research 
Institute, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Hematon Foundation, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(10)POLA, Lithuanian Cancer Patient Coalition, Kaunas, Lithuania.
(11)Albert Schweitzer Hospital, Dordrecht, The Netherlands.
(12)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University 
Hospital Brno, Brno, Czech Republic.

Treatment-free remission (TFR) after discontinuation of tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor therapy is now an emerging treatment goal for patients with chronic 
myeloid leukemia, who have achieved a deep and stable response to treatment. 
Although guidance is now available, patients' questions regarding this 
progressive concept have yet to be addressed. The overall aim of this European 
Steering Group is a patient-centered approach that educates patients on their 
treatment options, including TFR, facilitates better patient-physician 
relationships, and meets patients' emotional and psychological needs. The 
present report outlines 5 key topic areas on discontinuing tyrosine kinase 
therapy and the implications of TFR for patient-physician consideration: what 
TFR is; when TFR is appropriate; which patients might and might not be eligible 
for TFR; and patients' considerations for discontinuing therapy, such as 
tyrosine kinase withdrawal syndrome, potential psychological implications, 
molecular recurrence, and repeat treatment. This Steering Group advocates that 
patients with chronic myeloid leukemia should have access to high-quality, 
frequent molecular monitoring and be treated in a specialist center with 
appropriate medical and psychological support. As patient concerns with 
attempting TFR become forefront in patient-physician discussions, a greater 
number of eligible patients might be willing to discontinue therapy.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clml.2018.04.005
PMID: 29753691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Cancer. 2018 Jul 15;124(14):2956-2963. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31411. Epub 2018 May 3.

Discontinuation of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in chronic myeloid leukemia: 
Recommendations for clinical practice from the French Chronic Myeloid Leukemia 
Study Group.

Rea D(1), Ame S(1), Berger M(1), Cayuela JM(1), Charbonnier A(1), Coiteux V(1), 
Cony-Makhoul P(1), Dubruille V(1), Dulucq S(1), Etienne G(1), Legros L(1), 
Nicolini F(1), Roche-Lestienne C(1), Escoffre-Barbe M(1), Gardembas M(1), 
Guerci-Bresler A(1), Johnson-Ansah H(1), Rigal-Huguet F(1), Rousselot P(1), 
Mahon FX(1); French Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Study Group.

Author information:
(1)French Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Study Group, Bergonié Institute, Bordeaux, 
France.

BACKGROUND: The ultimate goal of chronic myeloid leukemia management in the 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) era for patients who obtain deep molecular 
responses is maintaining a durable off-treatment response after treatment 
discontinuation; this situation is called treatment-free remission (TFR). 
Knowledge accumulated during the last 10 years justifies moving TFR strategies 
from research to clinical practice.
METHODS: Twenty experts from the French Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Study Group 
(France Intergroupe des Leucémies Myéloïdes Chroniques), including 17 
hematologists, 2 molecular biologists, and 1 cytogeneticist, critically reviewed 
published data with the goal of developing evidence-based recommendations for 
TKI discontinuation in clinical practice.
RESULTS: Clinically relevant questions were addressed, including the selection 
of candidate patients (with known prognostic factors for outcomes taken into 
account), detailed monitoring procedures during the treatment-free phase, a 
definition of relapse requiring therapy resumption, and monitoring after 
treatment reintroduction.
CONCLUSIONS: This work presents consensus statements with the aim of guiding 
physicians and biologists by means of pragmatic recommendations for safe TKI 
discontinuation in daily practice. Cancer 2018;124:2956-63. © 2018 American 
Cancer Society.

© 2018 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.31411
PMID: 29723417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Transl Behav Med. 2018 Mar 1;8(2):175-182. doi: 10.1093/tbm/ibx034.

Improving shared decision-making in chronic lymphocytic leukemia through 
multidisciplinary education.

Rocque GB(1)(2), Williams CP(2), Halilova KI(2), Borate U(3), Jackson BE(4), Van 
Laar ES(5), Pisu M(6), Butler TW(7), Davis RS(2), Mehta A(2), Knight SJ(6), 
Safford MM(8).

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL, USA.
(2)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA.
(3)Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health and Sciences University, Oregan, OR, 
USA.
(4)JPS Health Network, Research Institute, Fort Worth, TX, USA.
(5)Medscape, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Division of Preventive Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA.
(7)University of South Alabama Mitchell Cancer Institute, Mobile, AL, USA.
(8)Weill Cornell Medical College, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.

New treatments for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with excellent response 
rates and varying toxicity profiles have emerged in recent years, creating an 
opportunity for a patient's personal preferences to contribute to treatment 
decisions. We conducted a prospective, quasi-experimental pre- and 
post-evaluation of a multilevel educational program and its impact on knowledge 
of CLL and shared decision-making (SDM). We educated patients, lay navigators, 
nurses/advanced practice providers (APPs), and physicians. Patients were 
evaluated for change in patient activation, distress, desired role in 
decision-making, perception of decision-making, satisfaction with oncologist 
explanation of treatment choice, and knowledge of CLL. Lay navigators, 
nurses/APPs, and physicians were evaluated for change in CLL knowledge and 
perception of decision-making. Forty-four patients, 33 lay navigators, 27 
nurses/APPs, and 27 physicians participated in the educational program. We 
observed trends toward improved patient activation, with 68% before education 
versus 76% after education reporting a Patient Activation Measure (PAM) score of 
3 or 4. The percentage of patients desiring and perceiving SDM trended upward 
from 47% to 67% and from 35% to 49%, respectively. The percentage of patients 
understanding that CLL is incurable increased from 80% to 90%, as did reporting 
awareness of signs of progression (64% to 76%). Patients' satisfaction with 
their oncologists' explanations of therapy increased significantly from 83% to 
95% (p = .03). CLL knowledge increased after education for lay navigators (36% 
vs 63%) and nurses/APPs (35% vs 69%), and remained high for physicians (85% vs 
87%). Nurses/APPs and physicians perceived at least some patient involvement in 
decision-making at baseline, whereas 12% of patients and 23% of lay navigators 
perceived that physicians made decisions independently. This project 
demonstrated trends toward improvements in patient engagement, prognostic 
awareness, knowledge of signs of progression, and SDM. These promising findings 
should be tested in larger samples. There remains an opportunity for further 
improvement in SDM.

DOI: 10.1093/tbm/ibx034
PMID: 29390159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth. 2017 Dec 6;5(12):e184. doi: 10.2196/mhealth.8349.

Mobile Health Intervention to Increase Oral Cancer Therapy Adherence in Patients 
With Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (The REMIND System): Clinical Feasibility and 
Acceptability Assessment.

Pereira-Salgado A(1)(2), Westwood JA(3), Russell L(4), Ugalde A(4), Ortlepp 
B(5), Seymour JF(6)(7), Butow P(8), Cavedon L(9), Ong K(9), Aranda S(3)(10), 
Breen S(3)(11), Kirsa S(12)(13), Dunlevie A(3), Schofield P(3)(7)(14).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nursing Research, Cabrini Institute, Malvern, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, 
Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Cancer Experiences Research, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, 
East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Faculty of Health, Deakin University, 
Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Department of Haematology, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia.
(6)Department of Haematology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(7)Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry 
and Health Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(8)School of Psychology, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(9)School of Science, RMIT University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(10)Cancer Council Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(11)Public Health Group, Stroke Division, The Florey Institute of Neuroscience 
and Mental Health, Heidelberg , Victoria, Australia.
(12)Pharmacy Department, Monash Health, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(13)Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Monash University, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(14)Department of Psychology, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Health, Arts 
and Design, Swinburne University of Technology, Hawthorn, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Optimal dosing of oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy is critical 
to treatment success and survival of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML). Drug intolerance secondary to toxicities and nonadherence are significant 
factors in treatment failure.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to develop and pilot-test the 
clinical feasibility and acceptability of a mobile health system (REMIND) to 
increase oral drug adherence and patient symptom self-management among people 
with CML (chronic phase).
METHODS: A multifaceted intervention was iteratively developed using the 
intervention development framework by Schofield and Chambers, consisting of 
defining the patient problem and iteratively refining the intervention. The 
clinical feasibility and acceptability were examined via patient and 
intervention nurse interviews, which were audiotaped, transcribed, and 
deductively content analyzed.
RESULTS: The intervention comprised 2 synergistically operating elements: (1) 
daily medication reminders and routine assessment of side effects with 
evidence-based self-care advice delivered in real time and (2) question prompt 
list (QPL) questions and routinely collected individual patient adherence and 
side effect profile data used to shape nurses' consultations, which employed 
motivational interviewing to support adoption of self-management behaviors. A 
total of 4 consultations and daily alerts and advice were delivered over 10 
weeks. In total, 58% (10/17) of patients and 2 nurses participated in the pilot 
study. Patients reported several benefits of the intervention: help in 
establishing medication routines, resolution of symptom uncertainty, increased 
awareness of self-care, and informed decision making. Nurses also endorsed the 
intervention: it assisted in establishing pill-taking routines and patients 
developing effective solutions to adherence challenges.
CONCLUSIONS: The REMIND system with nurse support was usable and acceptable to 
both patients and nurses. It has the potential to improve adherence and 
side-effect management and should be further evaluated.

©Amanda Pereira-Salgado, Jennifer A Westwood, Lahiru Russell, Anna Ugalde, 
Bronwen Ortlepp, John F Seymour, Phyllis Butow, Lawrence Cavedon, Kevin Ong, 
Sanchia Aranda, Sibilah Breen, Suzanne Kirsa, Andrew Dunlevie, Penelope 
Schofield. Originally published in JMIR Mhealth and Uhealth 
(http://mhealth.jmir.org), 06.12.2017.

DOI: 10.2196/mhealth.8349
PMCID: PMC5738545
PMID: 29212628

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Janssen employs PS as an 
ad hoc consultant on medication adherence.


91. Br J Nurs. 2017 Oct 12;26(18):1026-1032. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2017.26.18.1026.

Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and secondary skin malignancies.

Kyle G(1).

Author information:
(1)Nurse Tutor, Centre for Learning and Development at Tallaght Hospital, Dublin 
24, Ireland.

Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a non-Hodgkin lymphoma commonly occurring 
in older adults. Many people with CLL can go for years without requiring 
treatment. However, they have an increased risk of secondary cancers, 
specifically melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers. Furthermore, these 
secondary cancers are frequently more aggressive in this cohort of patients. 
Health professionals working in haematology, dermatology and general practice 
have an opportunity to educate patients about risk factors and measures to aid 
prevention. Modern technology may assist patients and professionals in the early 
detection of secondary skin cancers, which will lead to expedited treatment and 
better survival outcomes.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2017.26.18.1026
PMID: 29034706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Leuk Lymphoma. 2018 Mar;59(3):578-582. doi: 10.1080/10428194.2017.1349903. Epub 
2017 Aug 3.

Recommendations for skin cancer monitoring for patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia.

Mulcahy A(1), Mulligan SP(2), Shumack SP(3).

Author information:
(1)a Central Sydney Dermatology , Sydney , Australia.
(2)b Department of Haematology, Royal North Shore Hospital , St Leonards , 
Australia.
(3)c Department of Dermatology , Royal North Shore Hospital , St Leonards , 
Australia.

DOI: 10.1080/10428194.2017.1349903
PMID: 28771053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2017 Jul 27;18(7):1925-1930. doi: 
10.22034/apjcp.2017.18.7.1925.

Understanding and Challenges in Taking Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors among 
Malaysian Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Patients: A Qualitative Study.

Lim YM(1), Eng WL, Chan HK.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, Sultanah Bahiyah Hospital, Alor Setar, Malaysia. Email: 
huankeat123@yahoo.com

Background: In Malaysia, the treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has 
long been delivered under the Malaysian Patient Assistance Program (MYPAP), but 
research on identifying factors contributing to non-adherence to tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs) is still limited. The current study explored understanding and 
challenges of Malaysian CML patients in taking imatinib and nilotinib. Methods: 
Semi-structured, face-to-face interviews were conducted with 13 CML patients 
receiving treatment at a public tertiary care center, and were analyzed using 
the content analysis approach. Results: The patients generally demonstrated 
inadequate knowledge, particularly of the natural history and staging of CML, 
the function of TKIs, and the methods used for monitoring the effectiveness of 
treatment. A number of them also had experiences of withholding, skipping or 
altering the treatment, mainly due to the life-disturbing adverse drug effects 
(ADRs), forgetfulness, and religious and social issues. Besides, most of them 
were found having limited skills in managing the ADRs, and not using prompts as 
reminders to take the medications. Furthermore, even though nilotinib was 
generally perceived as better tolerated as compared with imatinib, the 
inconvenience caused by the need to take it twice daily and on an empty stomach 
was constantly highlighted by the patients. Conclusion: While TKIs are widely 
used for CML treatment in Malaysia, the findings have revealed a lack of patient 
education and awareness, which warrants an integrated plan to reinforce 
medication adherence.

Creative Commons Attribution License

DOI: 10.22034/apjcp.2017.18.7.1925
PMCID: PMC5648400
PMID: 28749622


94. Qual Health Res. 2017 Jul;27(8):1215-1224. doi: 10.1177/1049732316688882. Epub 
2017 Jan 25.

Intentional Nonadherence as a Means to Exert Control.

Huyard C(1), Derijks L(2), Haak H(2), Lieverse L(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Universite De Lille, CNRS, UMR 8026, France.
(2)2 Máxima Medisch Centrum, Eindhoven, Noord-Brabant, The Netherlands.

Medication adherence is a major issue for patients with a chronic illness, who 
sometimes rationally choose temporary nonadherence. This study aims at better 
understanding intentional nonadherence and especially why it seems to fluctuate 
over time. It is based on 48 semi-structured interviews conducted in a hospital 
in the Netherlands with patients who had been prescribed a medication for a 
chronic disease for at least 1 year, and who had either type 2 diabetes, 
hypertension, Parkinson's disease, inflammatory bowel disease, or chronic 
myeloid leukemia. The analysis uses a simplified version of the failure modes 
and effects analysis (FMEA) method. Intentional nonadherence appeared to be the 
result of the respondents' desire (a) to exert control over the treatment and 
its effects on their body, and (b) to control the hold of the treatment on their 
daily life. This result provides a rationale for the fluctuation of intentional 
nonadherence behavior.

DOI: 10.1177/1049732316688882
PMID: 28682739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Cancer. 2017 Nov 1;123(21):4268-4276. doi: 10.1002/cncr.30862. Epub 2017 Jun 27.

Survivorship and the chronic cancer patient: Patterns in treatment-related 
effects, follow-up care, and use of survivorship care plans.

Frick MA(1), Vachani CC(1), Bach C(1), Hampshire MK(1), Arnold-Korzeniowski 
K(1), Metz JM(1), Hill-Kayser CE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND: The survivorship needs of patients living with chronic cancer (CC) 
and their use of survivorship care plans (SCPs) have been overlooked and 
underappreciated.
METHODS: A convenience sample of 39,088 SCPs completed for cancer survivors with 
an Internet-based SCP tool was examined; it included 5847 CC survivors (15%; CC 
was defined as chronic leukemia and/or recurrent/metastatic cancer of another 
nature). Patient-reported treatment effects and follow-up care patterns were 
compared between CC survivors and survivors treated with curative intent (CI). 
Responses from a follow-up survey regarding SCP satisfaction and use were 
reviewed.
RESULTS: CC survivors had greater odds of experiencing multiple 
treatment-related effects than survivors treated with CI; these effects included 
fatigue, cognitive changes, dyspnea, peripheral neuropathy, lymphedema, and 
erectile dysfunction. Nearly half of CC survivors were managed by an oncologist 
alone, and they were less likely than CI patients to be comanaged by a primary 
care provider and an oncologist. Fewer SCPs were generated by health care 
providers (HCPs) for CC survivors versus CI survivors. A smaller proportion of 
CC users versus CI users rated their experience and satisfaction with the SCP 
tool as very good or excellent, and CC users were less likely to share the HCP 
summary with their health care team.
CONCLUSIONS: A substantial number of CC survivors, often considered incurable 
but treatable, seek survivorship support. Tools to facilitate participation, 
communication, and coordination of care are valuable for these patients, and 
future iterations of SCPs should be designed to address the particular 
circumstances of living with CC. Cancer 2017;123:4268-4276. © 2017 American 
Cancer Society.

© 2017 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.30862
PMID: 28654153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Br J Nurs. 2017 May 25;26(10):S20-S25. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2017.26.10.S20.

Imbruvica(®)▾(ibrutinib) patient support programme for chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia and mantle cell lymphoma.

Murthy V(1), Weaving S(2), Paneesha S(1).

Author information:
(1)Consultant Haematologist, Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust.
(2)Haematology Clinical Nurse Specialist, Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust.

Single-agent ibrutinib is an effective therapy for three types of non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma: chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma, 
both in relapsed and refractory cases and as a frontline treatment; relapsed and 
refractory mantle cell lymphoma; and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinaemia in 
patients who have been treated previously with a different medication. This 
novel agent has changed the landscape for the aforementioned three subtypes of 
lymphoma therapies as an oral alternative to traditional chemoimmunotherapy. 
You&i™ is a no-cost support programme, funded by Janssen, that connects patients 
taking Imbruvica with a nurse who can answer their questions and help address 
treatment challenges. This programme offers patients information about their 
disease, their treatment regimen and side effects management by telephone. The 
You&i programme was tested at an NHS hospital. Case studies of patients and 
feedback from health professionals who have used this service show its potential 
benefits to the patient experience and service delivery.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2017.26.10.S20
PMID: 28541116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Adv Pract Oncol. 2016 Mar;7(2):160-175. doi: 10.6004/jadpro.2016.7.2.3. Epub 
2016 Mar 1.

Bosutinib Therapy in Patients With Chronic Myeloid Leukemia: Practical 
Considerations for Management of Side Effects.

Ault PS(1), Rose PharmD J(2), Nodzon PhD LA(3), Kaled ES(1).

Author information:
(1)MD Anderson Cancer Center, University of Texas, Houston, Texas.
(2)Pfizer Inc, Collegeville, Pennsylvania.
(3)Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida.

The past decade has witnessed great advances in the treatment of chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML), brought about in large part by the development of BCR-ABL 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Bosutinib joins the armamentarium of approved 
TKIs for the treatment of chronic phase (CP), accelerated phase (AP), and blast 
phase (BP) Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive CML resistant to or intolerant 
of prior therapy. Bosutinib has an adverse-event (AE) profile distinct from that 
of other TKIs. Diarrhea is the predominant toxicity associated with bosutinib 
treatment; other commonly reported nonhematologic AEs include rash and liver 
enzyme elevations. Cardiac events, fluid retention, and electrolyte 
abnormalities are infrequent. Optimal response to bosutinib requires adherence, 
which depends, in part, upon optimal management of associated toxicities. The 
oncology clinician can facilitate this process by providing patient education, 
timely patient follow-up, and close monitoring to promptly identify and manage 
AEs. Thus, optimal patient management requires a thorough and current 
understanding of toxicity profiles and AE management paradigms. This review 
provides an overview of bosutinib safety data derived from ongoing clinical 
trials and offers practical clinical strategies currently used to manage 
toxicities associated with bosutinib treatment in patients with Ph-positive CP, 
AP, and BP CML.

DOI: 10.6004/jadpro.2016.7.2.3
PMCID: PMC5226309
PMID: 28090366


98. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2016 Mar;29(1):122-132. doi: 
10.1016/j.beha.2016.08.008. Epub 2016 Aug 11.

The 21st century revolution in CLL: Why this matters to patients.

Koffman B(1), Schorr A(2).

Author information:
(1)CLL Society Inc., PO Box 1390, Claremont, CA 91711, USA. Electronic address: 
Bkoffman@CLLSociety.org.
(2)Carlsbad, CA, USA.

The 21st century has seen rapid, positive changes in the management of chronic 
lymphocytic leukaemia from the patient's perspective. New prognostic and 
predictive markers have ushered in the start of more precise and individualized 
therapy. For the first time, combined therapy [fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and 
rituximab] has been shown to prolong life significantly. Clinical trials have 
become more adaptive, faster and more patient friendly. Perhaps the greatest 
change of all is the development of novel oral agents (ibrutinib and idelalisib) 
and powerful monoclonal antibodies that offer robust and durable disease 
control. Finally, access to and understanding of these changes through an 
empowered and educated patient population has grown through live education 
forums and the Internet.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beha.2016.08.008
PMID: 27742066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Clin Med Insights Oncol. 2016 Oct 2;10:95-104. doi: 10.4137/CMO.S32822. 
eCollection 2016.

Is Adherence to Imatinib Mesylate Treatment Among Patients with Chronic Myeloid 
Leukemia Associated with Better Clinical Outcomes in Qatar?

Al-Dewik NI(1), Morsi HM(2), Samara MM(3), Ghasoub RS(4), Gnanam CC(4), 
Bhaskaran SK(4), Nashwan AJ(4), Al-Jurf RM(5), Ismail MA(5), AlSharshani MM(6), 
AlSayab AA(7), Ben-Omran TI(8), Khatib RB(9), Yassin MA(4).

Author information:
(1)Qatar Medical Genetics Center, Hamad General Hospital (HGH), Hamad Medical 
Corporation, Doha, Qatar.; National Center for Cancer Care and Research (NCCCR), 
Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.; Interim Translational Research 
Institute (iTRI), Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.; Faculty of Health and 
Social Care Sciences, Kingston University and St. George's University of London, 
London, UK.
(2)Faculty of Health and Social Care Sciences, Kingston University and St. 
George's University of London, London, UK.; Academic Health System, Hamad 
Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.; Quality of Life Unit, Hamad Medical 
Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(3)Department of Psychology, Kingston University, London, UK.
(4)National Center for Cancer Care and Research (NCCCR), Hamad Medical 
Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(5)Interim Translational Research Institute (iTRI), Hamad Medical Corporation, 
Doha, Qatar.
(6)Molecular Genetics Laboratory, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(7)Interim Translational Research Institute (iTRI), Hamad Medical Corporation, 
Doha, Qatar.; Primary Health Care Center (PHCC), Hamad Medical Corporation, 
Doha, Qatar.
(8)Qatar Medical Genetics Center, Hamad General Hospital (HGH), Hamad Medical 
Corporation, Doha, Qatar.
(9)Medicines Management and Pharmacy Services, Leeds Teaching Hospitals, NHS 
Trust, Leeds, UK.; Faculty of Medicines and Health, LICAMM, University of Leeds, 
Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: Despite the revolutionary success of introducing tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs), such as imatinib mesylate (IM), for treating chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML), a substantial proportion of patients' treatments fail.
AIM: This study investigates the correlation between patient adherence and 
failure of TKIs' treatment in a follow-up study.
METHODS: This is a follow-up study of a new cohort of CML patients. Adherence to 
IM is assessed using the Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS 6 TrackCap, 
AARDEX Ltd). The 9-item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale, medication 
possession ratio (MPR) calculation, and the electronic medical records are used 
for identifying potential factors that influence adherence. Clinical outcomes 
are assessed according to the European Leukemia Net 2013 guidelines via reverse 
transcriptase quantitative polymerase chain reaction measurement of the level of 
BCR-ABL1 transcripts in peripheral blood. Response is classified at the 
hematological, cytogenetic, and molecular levels into optimal, suboptimal, or 
failure.
RESULTS: A total of 36 CML patients (5 citizens and 31 noncitizen residents) 
consented to participate in the study. The overall mean MEMS score was 89. Of 
the 36 patients, 22 (61%) were classified as adherent (mean: 95) and 14 (39%) 
were classified as nonadherent (mean: 80.2). Adherent patients were 
significantly more likely to obtain optimal response (95%) compared to the 
nonadherent group (14.3%; P < 0.0001). The rate of poor adherence was as high as 
39% using MEMS, which correlates with 37% treatment failure rate. The survey 
results show that 97% of patients increased the IM dose by themselves when they 
felt unwell and 31% of them took the missing IM dose when they remembered. Other 
factors known to influence adherence show that half of patients developed one or 
more side effects, 65% of patients experienced lack of funds, 13% of patients 
declared unavailability of the drug in the NCCCR pharmacy, and 72% of patients 
believed that IM would cure the disease. The MPR results reveal that 16% of 
patients had poor access to treatment through the hospital pharmacy.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: This is the first prospective study to evaluate CML 
patients' adherence and response to IM in Qatar. The high rate of treatment 
failure observed in Qatar is explained by poor adherence. An economic factor 
(unaffordable drug prices) is one of the main causes of nonadherence and efforts 
should be made locally to improve access to medication for cancer diseases. 
Other risk factors associated with poor adherence could be improved by close 
monitoring and dose adjustment. Monitoring risk factors for poor adherence and 
patient education that include direct communication between the health-care 
teams, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and patients are essential components for 
maximizing the benefits of TKI therapy and could rectify this problem. The 
preliminary results show that patients' response to treatment may be directly 
linked to patients' adherence to treatment. However, further in-depth and 
specific analysis may be necessary in a larger cohort.

DOI: 10.4137/CMO.S32822
PMCID: PMC5047706
PMID: 27721664


100. PLoS One. 2016 May 26;11(5):e0155782. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155782. 
eCollection 2016.

Banking Umbilical Cord Blood (UCB) Stem Cells: Awareness, Attitude and 
Expectations of Potential Donors from One of the Largest Potential Repository 
(India).

Pandey D(1), Kaur S(1), Kamath A(2)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, KMC Manipal, Manipal University, 
Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Community Medicine, KMC Manipal, Manipal University, Karnataka, 
India.

BACKGROUND: The concept of Umbilical Cord blood (UCB) stem cells is emerging as 
a non-invasive, efficacious alternative source of hematopoietic stem cells to 
treat a variety of blood and bone marrow diseases, blood cancers, metabolic 
disorders and immune deficiencies. Aim of the present study was to determine the 
level of awareness about banking UCB among pregnant women in India. We also 
assessed patient perception for banking of UCB and explored the patient 
expectations of banking UCB in future. This is the first study to assess current 
attitudes, in a sample population of potential donors from one of the largest 
potential UCB repository (India). Obtaining this information may help optimize 
recruitment efforts and improve patient education.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Present explorative questionnaire based survey included 254 
pregnant women in the final analysis.
RESULTS: We established only 26.5% pregnant women in our study population knew 
what exactly is meant by UCB. A large proportion (55.1%) was undecided on 
whether they want to bank UCB or not. Women were more aware of the more 
advertised private cord blood banking compared to public banking. More than half 
of the pregnant women expected their obstetrician to inform them regarding UCB. 
One-third of the women in our population had undue expectations from banking of 
the UCB.
CONCLUSION: Obstetricians should play a more active role in explaining the 
patients regarding pros and cons of UCB banking.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155782
PMCID: PMC4881935
PMID: 27228155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


101. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2016 Jun 1;73(11):797-809. doi: 10.2146/ajhp150749. Epub 
2016 Apr 28.

Specialty pharmacy for hematologic malignancies.

Fajardo S(1), Zook F(2), Dotson E(3).

Author information:
(1)Holden Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, 
Iowa City, IA susan-fajardo@uiowa.edu.
(2)Froedtert and the Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI.
(3)James Cancer Hospital, Ohio State Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH.

PURPOSE: The oral oncology medications used in the treatment of chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, multiple myeloma, and 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma are reviewed, and the specialty pharmacy services at 
three large academic medical centers are described.
SUMMARY: More than one dozen oral oncology medications are being used for 
hematologic malignancies and afford patients increased convenience and the 
potential to improve their quality of life. These agents include ibrutinib, 
idelalisib, imatinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, bosutinib, ponatinib, thalidomide, 
lenalidomide, pomalidomide, panobinostat, ixazomib, and vorinostat. Despite the 
benefits of an autonomous-driven patient care plan, these high-risk, high-cost 
treatments are not without their challenges. Oral oncology medications are 
associated with significant barriers to adherence, including low health 
literacy, patient forgetfulness, complex administration instructions, 
troublesome adverse effects, and high copayments. Many outpatient cancer center 
pharmacies associated with large academic medical centers are now applying for 
specialty pharmacy designation. This affords the onsite dispensing pharmacy 
access to once-limited oral oncology medications that can be dispensed to clinic 
patients. In addition, the specialty pharmacy services offered within these 
cancer centers bridge an important gap in patient care and improve the care 
provided to oncology patients.
CONCLUSION: As oral oncology agents continue to be approved by FDA, oncology 
treatment teams must establish a comprehensive plan for their management. 
Because of their pharmacologic expertise, access to patients' medical records, 
and unique position within ambulatory care oncology teams, pharmacists can play 
an important role in patient education, laboratory monitoring, medication 
adherence, and cost saving.

Copyright © 2016 by the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp150749
PMID: 27126835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Adv Nurs. 2016 Sep;72(9):2196-206. doi: 10.1111/jan.12978. Epub 2016 Apr 26.

Impact of tailored patient education on adherence of patients with chronic 
myeloid leukaemia to tyrosine kinase inhibitors: a randomized multicentre 
intervention study.

Kekäle M(1), Söderlund T(2), Koskenvesa P(3), Talvensaari K(4), Airaksinen M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, University of Helsinki, 
Finland.
(2)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Helsinki University Central 
Hospital and University of Helsinki, Finland.
(3)Department of Medicine, Helsinki University Central Hospital and University 
of Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Medical Center Mehiläinen, Nummela, Finland.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of tailored patient 
education on adherence to tyrosine kinase inhibitor medication among patients 
with chronic myeloid leukaemia.
BACKGROUND: Management of chronic myeloid leukaemia has changed dramatically 
during the last decade. While medication adherence is crucial to clinical 
response, little is known about how to improve patients' adherence.
DESIGN: Randomized multicentre intervention study.
METHODS: The study was conducted between June 2012-August 2014. Eighty-six 
patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia who had been on tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor medication for at least six months from eight hospitals were 
randomized into intervention and control groups. Intervention combined 
nurse-conducted medication counselling, an information booklet, video and 
website and text message reminders. Patients were interviewed to assess 
medication adherence using Morisky's 8-Item Medication Adherence Scale at 
baseline and nine months.
RESULTS: Medication adherence improved with the adherence aids used. At nine 
months, 51% of patients were highly adherent in the intervention group, compared 
with 21% in the control group. Adherence improved for a higher proportion of 
patients in the intervention group than the control group (49% vs. 18%). 
Morisky's score decreased in almost half of control group cases. Patients were 
most satisfied with face-to-face counselling (86%) and the information booklet 
(83%) and least satisfied with text messages (9%).
CONCLUSION: Tailored patient education improved the medication adherence of 
patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia. Without this, adherence behaviour 
tended to decline. Personal communication with a nurse proved to be an essential 
part of adherence support and should not be ignored.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.12978
PMID: 27113362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2016 Mar;14(3):301-9. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2016.0035.

Documentation of Fertility Preservation Discussions for Young Adults With 
Cancer: Examining Compliance With Treatment Guidelines.

Salsman JM(1)(2), Yanez B(1)(2), Smith KN(2)(3), Beaumont JL(1), Snyder MA(1), 
Barnes K(4), Clayman ML(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Social Sciences, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine
(2)The Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Fertility and 
Reproductive Medicine, Northwestern Medical Group
(4)Illinois School of Professional Psychology
(5)Division of General Internal Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois

BACKGROUND: Professional guidelines have been developed to promote discussion 
between providers and newly diagnosed young adults with cancer about the 
possibility of cancer treatment-related infertility, but previous research 
suggests many young adults fail to receive this information. The aim of this 
study was to examine rates of and factors predictive of oncologists' compliance 
with national guidelines for discussing potential treatment-related infertility 
with newly diagnosed young adults with cancer seen at an NCI-designated 
comprehensive cancer center.
METHODS: We reviewed data from the electronic medical record for new clinic 
encounters between medical oncologists and young adults with cancer (ages 18-39 
years) from 2010 to 2012. Data from oncologist discussions of fertility 
preservation were abstracted, as were patient (age, sex, race, ethnicity, cancer 
type) and oncologist (gender, graduation year from fellowship) characteristics.
RESULTS: A total of 1,018 cases were reviewed, with 454 patients (mean, 31.5 
years; 67.8% women) meeting inclusion criteria. Overall, 83% of patients were 
informed about potential treatment-related infertility, with patients with 
breast cancer (85% informed), Hodgkin lymphoma (95% informed), non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (94% informed), leukemia (88% informed), or testicular cancer (100% 
informed) more likely to be informed than those with other cancer types (60%-74% 
informed). There was a significant effect for patient sex (odds ratio, 3.57; CI, 
1.33, 9.60; P=.012), with women being more likely to be informed than men.
CONCLUSIONS: Reported compliance with fertility preservation guidelines was 
greater than published rates. Higher compliance rates in female patients and in 
patients with cancers more common among young adults may reflect greater 
awareness of fertility-related concerns among these patients and their 
providers.

Copyright © 2016 by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2016.0035
PMCID: PMC5537734
PMID: 26957616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Adv Nurs. 2016 Apr;72(4):754-8. doi: 10.1111/jan.12883. Epub 2016 Jan 7.

Investigating the use of Barrows Cards to improve self-management and reduce 
healthcare costs in adolescents with blood cancer: a pilot study.

Bagnasco A(1), Calza S(2), Petralia P(3), Aleo G(1), Fornoni L(4), Sasso L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, Italy.
(2)Blood Cancer Department, G. Gaslini Children's Hospital, Genoa, Italy.
(3)G. Gaslini Children's Hospital, Genoa, Italy.
(4)Centre of International Studies and Education "G. Gaslini", Genoa, Italy.

AIM: To test if the Barrows Cards method improves adherence to immunosuppressive 
therapy self-management following hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation in 
adolescents affected by blood cancer and reduce costs.
BACKGROUND: Chronically ill adolescents need to be helped to improve 
self-management, make sure they can confidently and safely manage therapy at 
home and reduce readmissions and costs. We identified the Barrows Cards method, 
originally used to test decision-making skills and critical thinking in medical 
students. In this pilot study, we tested the efficacy of the Barrows Cards 
Method in improving adhesion to immunosuppressive therapy in a group of 
adolescents following hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation and analysed its 
cost-effectiveness.
DESIGN: A mixed-method study.
METHODS: The Barrows Cards method is an educational intervention based on the 
theory of problem-based learning that uses at least 15 cards specially designed 
to teach participants how to manage a specific problem. We piloted the Barrows 
cards method in terms of adherence to immunosuppressive therapy and 
self-management in a group of 17 adolescents affected by blood cancer before 
being discharged. Participants were enrolled between 2013-2015. Activity Based 
Costing was used to analyse the cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The Barrows Cards method significantly improved adherence to 
immunosuppressive therapy in blood cancer adolescents and reduced readmissions. 
We also showed how this method could significantly reduce healthcare costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Further research is required, but the Barrows Cards method could be 
effectively used by nurses to improve self-management in chronic patients and 
reduce health costs.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.12883
PMID: 26749272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Am J Hematol. 2016 Mar;91(3):271-6. doi: 10.1002/ajh.24262. Epub 2016 Feb 9.

Early warning and prevention of pneumonia in acute leukemia by patient 
education, spirometry, and positive expiratory pressure: A randomized controlled 
trial.

Møller T(1), Moser C(2), Adamsen L(1), Rugaard G(1), Jarden M(1), Bøtcher TS(3), 
Wiedenbein L(1), Kjeldsen L(4).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Centre for Health Research (UCSF), Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Rigshospitalet, Denmark.
(3)Department of Haematology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Herlev, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Haematology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, 
Denmark.

Long-lasting neutropenia associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and its 
treatment gives rise to a high risk of pneumonia. The use of broad-spectrum 
antibiotic prophylaxis during outpatient management has not completely protected 
patients against admission due to infections and neutropenic fever, emphasizing 
the need to approach infection protection with complementary efforts. In a 
randomized controlled design, we examined the applicability of patient-performed 
daily spirometry [forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1)] as an early 
warning tool and explored the effectiveness of positive expiratory pressure 
(PEP) in preventing pneumonia among 80 AML patients. Twenty-five incidences of 
pneumonia were detected among 23 patients (6 interventions, 17 controls), giving 
a prevalence of 28.75% during 5420 days of observation. We found a significant 
difference in incidence between intervention versus control group (2.17 per 1000 
days vs. 6.52 per 1000 days, P = 0.021, respectively). A cross point at 80-76% 
of the personal FEV1 reference value showed high sensitivity and specificity on 
pneumonia development. Our data demonstrate the feasibility of educating AML 
patients in their continuous daily measurement of FEV1 and use of PEP. Daily 
measures of FEV1 may be an important early warning tool for assessment of 
pulmonary deterioration during critical phases of neutropenia. We suggest that 
strategic patient education in the use of spirometry and PEP should be part of 
standard of care for AML patients undergoing induction chemotherapy.

© 2015 The Authors. American Journal of Hematology Published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.24262
PMCID: PMC5067626
PMID: 26661344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Support Care Cancer. 2016 Feb;24(2):773-782. doi: 10.1007/s00520-015-2843-1. 
Epub 2015 Jul 21.

An oral care self-management support protocol (OrCaSS) to reduce oral mucositis 
in hospitalized patients with acute myeloid leukemia and allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: a randomized controlled pilot study.

Leppla L(1)(2), De Geest S(3), Fierz K(1), Deschler-Baier B(2), Koller A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nursing Science, University of Basel, Bernoullistrasse 28, 
CH-4056, Basel, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Oncology, Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation, University 
Medical Center Freiburg, Hugstetterstrasse 55, Freiburg, 79106, Germany.
(3)Institute of Nursing Science, University of Basel, Bernoullistrasse 28, 
CH-4056, Basel, Switzerland. Sabina.DeGeest@unibas.ch.

INTRODUCTION: Oral mucositis (OM) is a common and debilitating side effect of 
chemoradiotherapy in patients awaiting allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (aHSCT).
PURPOSE: The aim of this pilot RCT was to compare an oral care self-management 
support protocol (OrCaSS) to usual pre-aHSCT care. Feasibility was tested, 
effect sizes calculated for OM (primary outcome), and patient adherence was 
measured (secondary outcome).
METHODS: Eighteen AML patients awaiting aHSCT and hospitalized between August 
2012 and April 2013 were randomized 1:1 to usual care (UCG) and intervention 
(IG) groups. The OrCaSS protocol consisted of two sessions of educational and 
behavioral interventions, the first delivered 1 week pre-admission (T1), the 
second on admission day (T2). Via field notes, practicability and acceptability 
were evaluated to explore the feasibility of intervention and study procedures. 
OM data were collected at T1, T2, and daily for 28 days using the WHO scale. The 
effect size r was calculated (r less than -0.1 ≙ small and greater than or equal 
to -0.3 ≙ medium). Patients' adherence to the protocol was assessed at T1, T2, 
and 8-10 days post-HSCT (T3).
RESULTS: Research and intervention procedures were feasible. OM incidence was 
100 %. The IG's median highest OM grade was 2.0 (IQR = 2); the UCGs was 3.0 
(IQR = 2; r = -0.1). Median OM durations were 12 days in the IG and 14 days in 
the UCG (r = -0.1). OM onset was 2 days later in the IG than in the UCG 
(r = -0.1). Over the course of the study, patient adherence decreased in both 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: OrCaSS is a promising intervention to delay and reduce OM. These 
results can serve to plan a larger RCT.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-015-2843-1
PMID: 26190359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]